http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/12/dear-diary-december-1-2016/3/
Steffany
 Nothing new has been going on in my world. I’ve just been incredibly busy, busy, busy. Hoping that somewhere at the end of this semester is my way out of academic probation. I’ve been working really hard, but I’m at that weird place in my semester where I’m not sure if I’m in the clear yet. Finals are fast approaching and I’ve been putting my praying Nana to work these past few months. I’m also trying to find an internship for next semester. I’ve been washing and rewashing my interview outfits, taking off onto the train, and hoping for the best each time. 
When I arrived at my most recent interview, the woman who was supposed to interview me wasn’t there. I was so disappointed, because I’d confirmed that date not once but twice! A woman who works underneath her stepped in to interview me instead. I was nervous. She seemed about her business, and I was sure she was going to grill me. It was awkward initially. She was very quickly rattling off my responsibilities as an intern, all of which seemed incredibly daunting—coffee runs, laying out breakfast, tending to the other staff members’ every little need. It wasn’t until she mentioned transcribing that I found my in. I used that to discuss my editorial experience and how I’m hoping to use that as the foundation for a job working in TV. I told her how ideal this internship would be in figuring things out, while also bringing my experience transcribing interviews, working with others, and writing to the table. She seemed pretty sold. What really brought the interview home was when we discovered we were from the same hometown and grew up a few blocks apart. 
Lately, I’ve been realizing how small the world is. It’s so important to always be as kind as possible. I’m genuinely a great person that tries to put my best foot forward. I know I always mean well, and so with that, I hope that I’m rewarded with all of the things I want in life right now. I don’t feel as if I’m asking for a lot. I’m just ready to kickstart what I’ve long envisioned for myself: A fire academic record, an even better internship, and some coin in my pocket! ’Cause Lord knows a bitch is broke. Broke, but for once in a long time, in a really great headspace. Won’t He do it? ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/12/dear-diary-december-2-2016/3/
Thahabu
I have never resented being an empath more than I do right now. 
The friendship I terminated at the end of the summer was recently brought up by someone who enjoyed hanging with the both of us, together. We were a trio before things went sour. He came over to say goodbye before I returned to school to finish out the fall semester. We spent an hour catching up on each other’s lives and laughing. He asked if I had talked to the girl since the breakup, because he really wished that we could be the three musketeers again. I told him I blocked her in every way possible after our fight and do not plan to talk to her ever again. He frowned, replying, “That’s what I thought.” He explained that when he asked for the girl’s side of the story the week before seeing me, the only thing she was mad about was that I made her feel bad about all the terrible things she did the night before. (Basically, it was OK for her to harass, call me names, and stress me out that night, but when I responded in the same way it was wrong—a case of “I can’t take what I dish out.”) She told him that she behaved that way because she was in a dark place. Her self-esteem depended on attention from men, which somehow excused her behavior and made her the victim in the situation, as if I don’t have my own real shit that I slog through every day. 
She also said that she never cherished our friendship and she was never actually my friend, but was using me as someone to vent to and project her insecurities and anger onto when she was having guy problems. This is what I found most unsettling, not because I wanted her friendship back, but because we were friends for three and a half years. I shared a bed with this girl on multiple occasions for sleepovers that she organized. How do you listen to someone’s deepest secrets while knowing that you couldn’t care less? How could this person so easily slip into my life to use me up, give me an emotional beating, and then throw me out? She did a terrifyingly good job at pretending she was my close friend. 
What I see now is that she saw my casual attitude about sex and relationships as a threat to her own confidence. In her mind, girls are supposed to obsess over how much attention a guy gives them, and if they don’t they’re “just like a man,” they’re a fuckboy—what she called me when I would tell her about my confusion over why one of my sexual partners was berating me for not having romantic feelings for them. Apparently, there’s no way a “regular” woman can find joy in having casual sex and being independent. 
She often warned me that men go after empaths on purpose because they’re easier to manipulate, but that’s exactly what she did to me. Now I know why sometimes I felt like she was treating me like one of the guys she hooked up with who didn’t text her back. A friend shouldn’t take her frustrations about romance out on her friend who has more casual view on sex and relationships, shaming them and calling them names simply because it reminds them of their unrequited love interests. No friendship should be filled with that much drama. 
I feel bamboozled and frightened. I told this person things about me that no one else knows under the impression that she valued our friendship. In turn, this situation is having a negative effect on how I view the world and relationships. It’s like I’m in the twilight zone and I can’t trust anyone. I’m so paranoid. I keep thinking my friends are just pretending and everyone is out to get me, that they are all laughing at me behind my back. I don’t want to have this outlook, but I’m wary of building new friendships with women now: How will I know they are really my friend? How do I know they aren’t just a predator trying to gain something out of my being an empath? 
I hate feeling this way, and I don’t want to be a girl who says they don’t have female friends, but after this experience I don’t think saying that is always just about impressing guys! Women can be just as a abusive and manipulative as men. I know it sounds dramatic, but when a girl has a bad experience with an ex-boyfriend and she writes off boys for a while, many people would tell her it’s OK and she deserve to take that time for herself where she hates men. How do I get back to trusting other women again? I genuinely want to know, I’m tired of walking around with this paranoia.
That friendship made me feel so ashamed to be me. I used to love being me, but past abusive relationships have tricked me into thinking I shouldn’t. I want to get to a place where I take great pride in myself again, but also want to wrap myself in a cocoon of all my band shirts and cry. 
I found this quote on Tumblr: 
As a Gemini, you find yourself at odds with people. You want to go with the flow but all too often you find yourself with people trying to control you or trying to weigh you down. You seem to attract people who are threatened by your free-spiritedness. Don’t worry about those people, worry about what fills you up so that you can fill others up with goodness. Don’t settle with people whom you will build resentment with.
I don’t want to fill others up with goodness if it means they’re going to return the favor by taking advantage of me and stabbing me in the back. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/12/dear-diary-december-5-2016/3/
Lilly
College is almost over for the semester.
College is yet another floor-meeting in advance of everyone’s departure.
College is a $200 textbook on your Amazon wishlist.
College is your laundry, dumped unceremoniously on top of the dryer by some other impatient soul.
College is hitting “submit” on your registration for next semester’s classes and being greeted by a sea of error messages demanding prerequisite waivers and professors’ permission. You sit in resigned contemplation for a few minutes, robotically typing out an email to your advisor. Your friend is having a breakdown in the corner. You fix everything, get the schedule you originally wanted, but only after six hours of chasing down lab instructors in the bowels of buildings you’ve barely seen before and listening to one of your professors debate with the registrar over the phone.
College is cleaning your side of the room in less than three minutes.
College is being knee deep in the arXiv at 9:00 PM on a Friday night.
College is telling people where you’re from over and over and over because that’s the only thing anyone can ever think of to ask.
College is a list of errands that never ends.
College is the slow decline of your plants’ health because the sun never shines where you live.
College is sprinting down four flights of stairs at two in the morning because there’s enough snow on the ground to coat the grass and you and your friends are slip-sliding across the quad, screaming, Snapchatting, losing your keys and finding them again amidst bouts of laughter. A guy says, “Are you from up north or something? Jesus,” because he’s all wrapped up in a parka and long pants to your boots and a hoodie. Someone sneaks up behind him and drops a handful of snow down his neck. He screams as loud as you did earlier. Everything is a mess. Introductions are made and forgotten, possessions not secure in zippered pockets are claimed by the elements, cars literally slow down as they go by because who are these fools, floundering in an inch of snow at such an ungodly hour? Students. Of course.
College is your door propped open for the first month just like you’ve heard it’s supposed to be. No one comes in except for your roommate, who shuts it immediately and locks it behind her.
College is getting off at the wrong bus stop.
College is not what you were told it would be. It’s been exactly what you make of it, no more, no less. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/12/dear-diary-december-6-2016/3/
Fatma
Every day, with every worthless word, we get more far away.
The distance between us makes it so hard to stay.
But nothing lasts forever; but be honest, babe.
It hurts, but it may be the only way. 
—Maroon 5, “Nothing Lasts Forever”
These lyrics mean so much to me. For me, this song is not about being in a relationship, although it sounds like that. It’s is about the conflict that we have inside ourselves when we struggle to trust our own ideas or when we lack motivation. These lyrics also remind me that throughout my life I’ve tried to make the world listen. I have not conformed or tried to change the way that I dress or look. I have tried to scream at the world in the hope that someone will hear me. It’s just harder for people to hear what I’m saying because I don’t look like the model image of how society says girls should look. That’s really unfair, because I have a lot to say.
I just hope that someone, whoever they may be, is listening to me. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/12/dear-diary-december-7-2016/3/
Thahabu
I’m on edge all the time, confused and very scared. I’m going through dramatic changes in my life and I’m not sure how to deal. It’s hard to distract myself. I can’t pretend that none of it is real anymore. I’m afraid of what’s to come. I don’t know how I’m going to solve any of these problems. What’s worse is that I don’t have anyone to talk about any of it with. None of my friends would understand. I have bitter feelings about this aspect of the dilemma because friends always come to me with their problems, but I know I can’t talk about mine with them. It would be too much. I’m too much. People complain that I don’t open up enough but when I do they end up just as sad and unwanting of my dark thoughts as I am. So I’ll just keep everything to myself and hope nothing bad comes from it. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-1-2016/3/
Lilly
Things never settle. I finish midterms, I meet with my advisor about research opportunities for the spring semester, I go on day-long field trips with my geology class, I somehow still have time to Skype my parents and hold movie nights with friends from astronomy class—there’s always something to do, something to keep me going. I should be tired, burning out like one of the supermassive stars I’ve been learning about, but instead, I’m happy. Happier than I was in high school, by far. More stressed, sometimes, yes. But I think I’m learning to discern positive stress from negative.
My geology professor turns to me in the van and says, “So what made you realize you wanted to do something in the sciences?” He knows I’m a declared physics and astronomy major, so my first instinct is to talk about that—about Carl Sagan and fooling myself into thinking I had glimpsed Jupiter’s moons through binoculars and the book of constellations that stayed on my nightstand for years. Instead, for some reason, I pause and collect myself.
“I guess it was because no one ever told me I couldn’t,” I say eventually.
People usually assume one of two things when they find out I was homeschooled until I was almost eight. Either I had a sit-down classroom experience (except in my own living room) or I ran wild and had no formalized education whatsoever. Truth be told, my life probably resembled the latter much more than the former, but that didn’t mean I wasn’t working toward my education. Sure, I spent a healthy amount of time outside, as should all six-year-olds with the means to do so, but I also read books (so many more than I have for the past few years!) and sped through math texts faster than my parents could find me new ones (and graduated to stealing my brother’s when the wait time did not satisfy). My education never felt like a chore or a responsibility. It was exciting. What will I challenge today? What will I conquer today? I threw myself at math problems and reading exercises with the same ferocity that I did my bicycle or soccer ball. No one ever told me that anything was supposed to be “hard,” so I assumed, with childish confidence, that obviously meant that nothing was hard.
And it’s amazing what borderline arrogance can accomplish. It honestly wasn’t until high school that people started telling me that school was supposed to be difficult—especially math and science: “Calculus is hard. Standardized tests are hard. Physics is hard, wWhy do you want to take physics?”
I shrugged and demurred and evaded these kinds of questions for so long, but I think I’m discovering the answer, or maybe rediscovering it: it’s because I like it. It really is as simple as that. It’s because these subjects I love were never presented to me as a task to complete or a hurdle to overcome, just as steps on the path to understanding.
You remember what you love. Think about how easily you sing along to your favorite song, or recall the score of that crucial game your team won, even all those years ago. (Maybe you’re like me, and incessantly quote Interstellar to your friends just to hear the characters repeat after you moments later, much to the chagrin of said friends.) Since I was homeschooled, I was able to apply this to everything I enjoyed from an early age—even those things commonly determined “hard.” But it doesn’t matter. It doesn’t matter if it’s difficult, so long as you love it anyway. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-2-2016/3/
Steffany
I’m not sure if I’ve ever had an experience much like what I’m living through. I imagine, years from now in someone’s living room, I’ll be describing this period of my life as formative. Maybe, I’ll embellish the drama, so that it feels as hefty as it does to me at this moment. And then I’ll laugh, because it’s far behind me. 
However, from where I stand, most days bring about some kind of drama. Whether it’s the politics of school, like the budget for events that’d bring Black artists on campus possibly being rescinded or trying to stay afloat in a sea of schoolwork, I’m barely getting any rest! I’m miserable some days, hanging in suspension and completely unsure others, but also fluid? 
I’m happy to be alive. I love my family (I will probably complain about them next week, that’s life!). I’m happy to be wearing my favorite jacket in the fall breeze. I’m getting a better understanding of and appreciation for who I am. Every day on this campus, I encounter a perception of myself. Some of these are projected and can be crushing, but I’ve managed to forge ahead with a strong sense of self anyway. 
I often have to just disengage. It took stepping back from everything to do that. It took going to D.C. It took staring down history and what came before me and deliberately looking for restorative moments. The most important moment of this week, which I hope to now make routine: Letting my twistout down and applying lipgloss while being completely enamored with my own image. Allowing myself to be vain, and with a nod and a wink to acknowledge that I love the woman I’m becoming. All the sleepless nights will result in something eventually. I’ll be a’ight. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-3-2016/3/
Keianna
For Halloween this year I was the grandaughter of Sam Manson—a character from the animated series Danny Phantom. I decided to be her granddaughter because I don’t like green, and I wanted to drop the color from my homemade costume. But it came to my attention that some people thought I’d chosen to be Sam’s granddaughter, rather than Sam herself, because my complexion is darker than hers. 
Here’s something that has always really bothered me: When black people cosplay or dress up as non-black characters they are dubbed “The black (insert character here).” People make it seem as though black cosplayers can be OK but never as good as others. This is a tricky subject. I’m not sure how I should go about explaining why this frustrates me so much, which is in itself…frustrating. 
As I prepared for Halloween, I was worried that I’d get into arguments over offensive costumes at school. *Sigh*. If only this time of year wasn’t so full of racial tension, and black teens were allowed to enjoy it without fear. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-4-2016/3/
My days have been looking up. —Amil
Britney
I know I will be able to fix everything that has been fractured in my life, recent things and a few guest issues from the past. Read More »
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-7-2016/3/
Simone
I am 30 minutes late for tech call because I vainly applied a peel-off face mask that only reddened my skin. I don’t care, because soon enough all of our faces will be red from laughter and the heat of overcrowded backstage spaces. 
In the tight room, the drama teacher’s office on stage left, we memorialize Vine through recitations of past favorites, discuss our love for the line “Boyioyioiyoioyoi” in Beyonce’s “Countdown,” and, most intimately, share confessions after poking a doll with safety pins. Actors come in with snappy requests for costume repairs and Scotch tape, to which we concede. 
Through the show, one at a time, we head to stage to do our quick changes. Right after the song about loving Charles Manson/Jodie Foster, I successfully remove Olivia’s dress without screwing up her mic. This is the only time I have to be responsible all night. 
The show is over, and so is Halloween, but we’ve spent the past hours providing costumes for the production, so why not preserve the spirit of dress up? Eliza, Elana, Zahra, and I dress up as Ricky, Angela, Plastic Bag, and Jane, from American Beauty, respectively. We head to Quick Chek to garner the necessary soft drinks and quarts of ice cream required to enjoy a party. 
At the after-party, we gather around a kitchen island with all the other tech crews, the pit band, the actors, and a lucky extraneous few we’ve decided can participate with us, and belt—the trained amongst the tone deaf—the jukebox showtunes of our time. We are the dancing queens, young and sweet, only 17.
I am so happy. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-8-2016/3/
Alyson
I look at scars like
they’re tattoos
Is there a story behind them?
Or did the ink nestle into skin
Without knowing any better?
God, restless with his quill,
Tired of being careful
With you?
Mine change colors
Groundbreaking technology
Islands on white water
Fogging over
So eyes don’t have to. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-9-2016/3/
Kiana
I once read a tweet that likened getting over someone to redecorating a room. Because I’m a person of pure melancholy, I twisted it to fit my own narrative; how that is so true in my life at present as we’re moving places and spaces, my grandmother and I. 
The spaces that we once owned, occupied, and decorated to our content are now spaces for the carpenters to dig a drill into or put a wall over. Mere spaces, yet in our minds, these spaces are draped with memories. GAH, I guess this is getting too sluggish, and I wish I was the kind of smart who can pull a quote off the top of their heads to juxtapose their experiences with The Greats, but unfortunately I’m not, and thank you for bearing with me. (A note: I googled “great writers on spaces” and “great writers writing about spaces” to up the Schmarty Marty, but all I got was a peek into their workspaces and offices; now I’m disappointed @ Google.) Now I’m all feverish thinking of the person I was prior to this house rehauling situation; that maybe I lost it as the walls were being hammered down to the ground? That maybe the creative direction and hard work that I put into decorating my walls (three times annually) will never again be in my grasp; the handwritten Edgar Allan Poe poems are gone and that one photo of Lorde that I’d printed was lost. That maybe who I was at that point in my life will never return to me again, because Forever Young is a fickle promise and any effort aimed toward an expedition to The Fountain of Youth is futile, and I will never be absolved of the “sin” of not archiving. DON’T I JUST LOVE CASTIGATING MYSELF.
I know I have been writing constantly about spaces lately, but I guess writing about it is my way of understanding and accepting, a way for me to devise a concrete action plan, or maybe this is just for posterity’s sake. It’s so conflicting for me to want to have a space (physical or otherwise) for myself when all my life I have been deprived of it, forced to contort and twist my body in whichever way and direction in order to fit. The default for as long as I can remember is that my race restricts me from light, loose, open spaces, thus I wasn’t able to pry myself open, my interests and desires, and investigate or observe “what makes me tick.” Every self-help book I’ve read asked the same questions: “What makes you tick? What do you like to do in your spare time? Who are you when the whole world is not watching?” The answer to all that, I don’t know. And maybe I should stop reading self-help books.
From inside my journal/head this week:
Maybe bad days are similar to advertisements between TV shows—annoying at times and intrusive, but they come and go. It is my duty now, then, as a human being undergoing growth right at this very moment (surprise!) to embrace and accept that there will be sad, bad days, mean days, days when I can’t hold a conversation for more than three minutes, and stop seeing these days as of my own willful creation, or as a reflection of who I Really Am. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-10-2016/3/
Fatma
I know I’m young, but my mind thinks as if I’m 70 years old. I’m constantly thinking about life after death and I believe in Heaven and Hell, so I keep wondering where I’ll be placed. On one hand, I follow the law, I’m a kind person, and I believe in God. However, I don’t cover my hair, I’ve never read parts of the Qur’an and I live a westernised lifestyle regarding the music and films I watch. I know that in my heart I’m a compassionate person, but I also know that although Islam is a reasonable religion at heart, that some Muslims are really hardcore with their beliefs and I’m not like that. 
I don’t know if I’ll make it in Heaven if there are billions of Muslims who have worn the hijab since they were teenagers or prayed five times a day for decades, and I’m standing there with my Kanye West CDs. Another thing that scares me is that God doesn’t like me. I try to talk to my dad about this but he tells me that we shouldn’t talk about God as though He’s a person. However, it comforts me when I imagine Him as a person. I really hope He likes me—I think He does, because He created me but I always have the slightest bit of doubt in my mind about whether He’s disappointed in me or not. I learnt in school that Heaven in Islam works like this: If someone wants something, they get it immediately. 
If I get there, I’m going to be in a movie theatre where everything is baby blue: the walls, the seats, the carpet, and there’s a big projector that’s playing The Royal Tenenbaums and the theatre is packed but everyone is silently watching the movie. My wish would be to never have to feel lonely again. 
There is a quote about death that makes me laugh and reassures me regarding my morbid thoughts: “If Heaven does exist, I’m worried that I get up there and there is a load of people who I know, who have annoyed me in this life and suddenly, I’m in this place with them, forever—people who were a pain in the ass. And suddenly, ‘Hi Karl, oh you’re dead, are you? Oh Jesus, you made it did you?’, forever”—Karl Pilkington—An Idiot Abroad, Season Three Episode Two (India). ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-11-2016/3/
Steffany
I’ve been thinking thinking thinking. I feel deeply that I’m going through a shift, a personal change that has been building up to this very moment. It’s weird, but it’s as if a wave came over me and I no longer have access to my former self. In the attempt to recover, I’m left only with picking up the pieces and figuring out who that person was, and how to reconstruct a better version. On an isolated college campus, you’re constantly going against projections of who people think you are while also trying to figure out who you actually are. These projections rear their ugly heads in all aspects of life here. I’ve found myself looking outward in hopes to see myself peering back through someone else’s art. This week, the profile of Zadie Smith in New York Times Magazine, articulated how I’ve always felt about process of dating, on campus especially. (I’m probably not gon’ get that MRS degree, y’all):
 Zadie’s status as a former ugly duckling has given her a provisional attitude toward her looks. “I did not mind dressing up for strangers,” her narrator remarks in a passage Zadie admits is characteristic of her own story, “but in our rooms, within our intimacy, I could not be a girl, nor could I be anybody’s baby, I could only be a female human.” 
I ask about that passage. “When I was growing up, just the whole idea of being a girl—it seemed like a lot of work to me. Even now, I will wear lipstick and mascara but I will not do anything else. I won’t do my toenails or my fingernails. I was terrible at dating because of what dating involves, the presentation of something.”
“You’re pretty presentable,” I say. 
“I am presentable, but it’s like Nick says: The moment I come in, it’s sweatpants, makeup off, huge crazed Afro.”
“Men have never noticed toenails or fingernails on women.” 
“I know. I also sense that. I often feel that women radically overestimate what men notice or care about.”
The work of being female, the performance of gender—Zadie has her limits. Whenever I compliment her on a dress she’s wearing, she tells me how cheaply she got it online. If I mention a new hairstyle, she thrusts a Cleopatran braid into my hand and says, “extensions.” Once, she called me from a hair salon, near tears, to say she couldn’t meet for dinner that night because her hair had “broken down” and she was going to have to shave her head and start over. When we finally got together, I expected her to look bristly headed and traumatized, like Dustin Hoffman in Papillon. But Zadie sauntered into the restaurant smiling, a mop of “Flashdance” ringlets bouncing around her face. Fake, too, apparently. Like femininity. Like literature. She wanted me to know.
Reading that passage planted both of my feet firmly in the ground. The bits and pieces that resonated were swiftly copied and pasted and sent to my friends. It’s all I can do until I can find a better way to articulate whatever this moment in my life is. Yeah, I have a flare for the dramatic, but it feels particularly important, as though I’m on the edge of something great or something horrible—no middle ground. And whenever I slip too deep into the blues that comes with being a college student, or a Black woman in a very White (Liberal my ass, y’all don’t even know!) space, I find some form of upliftment in the work I see online, in cinemas, in books. Then, I’m reminded that everything will be fine and that in the end, I’ll come out of all this a badder bitch. Word to Nicki. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-14-2016/3/
Keianna
Dear Lauren,
I thought it’d be easier to write this letter while you’re still here, because I know I will be very emotional when it’s time for you to leave. When we all met in the psychology room you were alone and I was very much in the mindset that Charlotte was my only friend and that was fine. Over a couple of weeks, we learned each other’s names and many things about each other. You made it clear that you were only going to be here for a semester.
I see you every day yet I still get a twist of anxiety about what life’s going to be like without you. I suppose this is just the beginning of the end, but I don’t think it’s something I’ll get used to. I’m going to miss you. I’m going to miss walking out of first period and seeing you walk toward us. I’m going to miss you carrying around your skateboard even though you’re totally not supposed to have it during school hours. I’m going to miss your energy, openness, and ability to make anyone your friend. Knowing you are where you’re supposed to be and happy will get me through you not being here. You haven’t even gone yet and I’m looking forward to seeing you again! You’re important to me because you gave me a new perspective when I needed one. We weren’t Charlotte and Keianna anymore. We’re Charlotte, Keianna, and Lauren. I’ve never had a friend with a time limit but I’m glad it was you, Lauren, because I’d rather have you for a little bit then not at all.
Yours always,
Keianna ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-15-2016/3/
Lilly
I leave the watch party at a quarter to midnight. It’s not much of a party anymore. I tell my friends that I’m going to bed, sit in darkness for five minutes, then rejoin them in the hallway. We sit cross-legged and stare into space for hours. I tell myself that I won’t cry, that I will be strong, stoic in the face of the unknown. My face burns with the effort. I never let out a sob, but the tears run hot down my face as we all listen to each other, baring our fears until we’re all talked out and silence falls again, no one daring to check their phones, trying to salvage comfort simply in coexisting. Safe for the moment.
The next day is intense. My breath never catches, but the silent tears return when I walk into my linear algebra class and realize that my professor is wearing the same clothes he left in the night before, his eyes dark and weary and deep set. “Are you guys OK with not talking about math today?” he says, and there is a hitch in his voice. We let him talk, tell us about his family, because we can see that he needs this as much as we do. When I hand in my finished exam to my geology instructor halfway through the period, unable to focus on it for even a second longer, I see in his eyes nothing but regret for putting us through this after what was, for many, a sleepless night. And while my astronomy professor is almost visibly holding himself back, doing his best to give us something ordinary to cling to, he is the first to leave the room after dismissing class and the Post-It note on his door says, “Sorry, everyone, no office hours this afternoon.” We are all too tired, too preoccupied trying to cope.
I find myself torn again, and this time it cuts me differently, but no less deep. Because while my friends are going to protests, making their voices heard, I am drowning in a physics problem set in the sickly fluorescent light of my dormitory. Studying feels at once a luxury and a responsibility, especially what I am studying. Do I really dare cast my net out into the far reaches of the universe when there’s so much to attend to on our own planet? Isn’t there something inherently selfish about pursuing astronomy?
Carl Sagan said in Contact, “For small creatures such as we, the vastness is bearable only through love.” It was his birthday on November 9. He would have been 82. This is not about me, and right now it is not my voice that needs to be heard. But I will do what I can. I will do what I can. I will do what I can. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-16-2016/3/
Alyson
Thoughts:
a) Who am I without my emails?
b) When I see people kiss on TV, I know what they mean now.
c) I think God’s laughing at me and I keep saying “Whhaaaat??” and He just keeps laughing, lol.
d) When I say “I love you,” am I saying it to you or to the screen?
e) Mom couldn’t have picked a worse photo of me to put on the calendar this year, thx.
f) I’m a random millennial, pick me!
g) Take a Chance on Me: The Story That Never Came to Exist
h) Maybe I won’t be alone at prom this year?
i) Funny how I said “no one cares about me here but a lot of people cared about me in NY,” when what I meant to say was, “No one is attracted to me here; a lot of people were attracted to me in NY,” which is maybe the opposite of caring.
j) How are my prompts doing? Instead of how am I doing? ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-17-2016/3/
Kiana
According to the website Brain HQ:
Brain plasticity is a common term used by neuroscientists, referring to the brain’s ability to change at any age—for better or worse. As you would imagine, this flexibility plays an incredibly important role in our brain development (or decline) and in shaping our distinct personalities…Brain plasticity science is the study of a physical process. Gray matter can actually shrink or thicken; neural connections can be forged and refined or weakened and severed. Changes in the physical brain manifest as changes in our abilities. 
It’s not too late. It’s not too late for me to spit your name out of my swollen mouth, where once on a lonely school night I practiced saying your name aloud like a prayer, a siren’s call. It’s not too late; I can unhinge myself from the roughness of your hands, the grit of your eyes, the wayward glance that shifts from heartstring to heartstring. It’s not too late to sever the neural connections that link me to you, and you to me, like speeding past a red light and cutting through the traffic to get to a destination—frightening, but it will be worth it. It’s not too late to remember that I need to forget in order to survive; to remember that I need to survive in order to run to places that don’t rhyme with your name; to remember to survive even with the words “Kiana, you’re beautiful just the way you are” still in the recesses of my brain, unchanged even by the makeup of my physical brain. Science can speak up for me.
“Does analogy make emotion less sincere?” asks Chris Kraus’s I Love Dick. Will writing about you mercilessly suspend the impending incurable disease? Or will digging through the grave bring me back to the very bones and insects that have come haunting me every night for the past five, six, seven years?
From my journal this week: “Maybe you can’t forget because you keep trying to remember.”
Some Roland Barthes, from A Lover’s Discourse, for fuck’s sake:
To reduce his wretchedness, the subject pins his hope on a method of control, which permits him to circumscribe the pleasures afforded by the amorous relation: on the one hand, to keep these pleasures, to take full advantage of them, and on the other hand, to place within a parenthesis of the unthinkable those broad depressive zones which separate such pleasures: “to forget” the loved being outside of the pleasures that being bestows.
The above could be compared to Sylvere (in Kraus’s I Love Dick): “I may be leaving the scene of the crime, but I can’t let it fade out into nothingness.” So, I write.
I’m outside looking up at the supermoon in Taurus and wishing my stars a lovely lifetime, however long they may be. This is by far the most effective belief system I’ve ever held. 
Do you remember the last time you looked at the stars and saw them as just stars, just there, not meaning or symbolizing anything? ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-18-2016/3/
Thahabu
I think my initial shock and outrage over Donald Trump winning the election has somewhat subsided. But the image of my friend Jonathan, who is Mexican, breaking down and crying next to me at a bar as we watched Trump take Pennsylvania, is on replay 24 hours a day on the biggest and fanciest IMAX screen in my subconscious, accompanied by the loudest state of art surround sound system. 
I swear to you, I wake up every morning now thinking it was all a nightmare, that the election hasn’t happened yet and I’m still underwhelmingly convinced that Hillary Clinton will win. This has to be my brain trying to cope with the trauma, because I can go the whole morning functioning in this state of denial until I leave the comfort of my room, and unfortunately remember I am not a character in Inception. The memory of Jonathan looking at the TV screen jokingly saying, “Oh my God, he’s really winning,” with a hint of consternation, then pausing only to repeat himself as he starts to choke up and cry makes its way to the epicenter of my brain and I start to cry, too. What makes this moment so emotionally charged for me (besides seeing my friend cry) is that it was the breaking point, the point of no return. 
Minutes before his breakdown I still thought everything was going to be OK and Trump’s run was a joke. I was laughing. I still thought Hillary could catch up, we still had about two hours until the polls closed. His tears knocked me off my dreamy watchtower. A rapist who ran his campaign based on racism, xenophobia, and sexism is poised be our president after winning the electoral vote. I rubbed his back and began to cry, “We’re not gonna let them get away with this, Jon. This was your country before anyone else’s. We’re gonna fight. I’m gonna fight with you.” 
I really thought I was over this, but last night I left tears on the train floor for the fifth time this week. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-21-2016/3/
Britney
Ends that I want:

 High school (now, for the break, so I can leave the city, which I’ve grown to hate).
 High school (later, when I make the final break and mourn my adolescence—but not how it was spent, rather I’ll lament what was not and maybe could not have been).
 My flailing.
 The blockage of all the writing I vowed to spill from my open cuts.
 My quicksand escape into memory.
 The inability to fit cleanly into my ideal perception of “good” and of “worthy”; the inability to leave my thinking once I recognize its irrationality; the floating.
 This stupid class.
 This stupid strife. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-22-2016/3/
Ananda
Beautiful disasters:
A crushed flower on the pavement.
Sunshine peeking through the trees and into your eyes.
Breakfast with one mouthful left.
Hot chocolate before the marshmallows have melted.
Long silences as we look into each other’s eyes.
You:
Photographs where you’re blinking.
Singing at the top of your lungs even though you can’t hold a note.
Lipstick stain on your skin.
Lights being put away on Boxing Day.
Sex after a fight.
Hugs goodbye.
Spilling glitter on the carpet.
Snow seeping through your shoes.
A love song crossed out with pen.
Me:
Coffee cake.
Reading the same book for the fifth time.
Dreaming of you and waking up.
Presents you pretend to like.
Sleeping without you. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-23-2016/3/
Keianna
My age is hindering me, and that fact has been on my mind for most of the month. I’m too young to make big decisions by myself but old enough to understand that I’m missing out on some cool experiences. On top of that my life just seems to be one inconvenience after the next—they range from minor to major but happen constantly. These two things have left me with a lingering feeling of dissatisfaction and sadness that I’ve been unable to shake.
I allow myself 10 minutes to get settled in when I get home from school before starting my homework, which doesn’t get finished until right before I have to go to bed. This leaves little time for the social activities I used to be able to enjoy. When we moved a couple cities away from school I didn’t think it would hurt my social life as much as it has. No one really likes driving to pick me up, and getting rides is always a problem. My sisters and I get along most of the time but because they are twins and there is an age gap of three years between us, they prefer each other’s company. There are tons of people in my house but I feel like I’m by myself all the time. 
Last night, my best friend and I decided to see The Edge of Seventeen. Her mom picked me up and we did our usual routine of not really greeting each other until we were out of the car. As confidently as we could, we walked to the window and asked for two tickets. The employee responded with “Of course! Can I see a valid ID?” No you cannot, kind lady, because we are actual CHILDREN who don’t have the proper form of ID that would allow us to see an R-rated movie. Saddened, we decided to go get some food and figure out how to get tickets to the next showing. We got Chipotle, which I promptly dropped on the floor after a few bites because I’m a mess. Figuring there was no way we could get anyone to buy us tickets to the movie we wondered around the plaza. We bought matching hand sanitizers and CDs and enjoyed each other’s company.
When we finally got home, defeated and exhausted, I was welcomed by words of encouragement and love from my friends. It seems like they help me find the answers to every problem I have. While I still feel that small air of sadness around me, they help me forget about it for a little while. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-25-2016/3/
Alyson
My room is cold. I walk into my bathroom and wonder why I ever thought so. I come back and I know why.
I have gone to the library to do my writing. I do so much there that I can’t believe it’s my hands that have done all the work. The library is room temperature.
Hot yoga is hot. I never put my fingertips on the floor even when we are supposed to, because there are little islands of sweat that used to be inside of me but now are not. Madness. I always have to pull my pants up so my underwear doesn’t show.
Oil pastels are hot and Google Docs is lukewarm. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-28-2016/3/
Simone
I’m reading through old diaries and recounting memories in preparation for an event I plan with my friend every few months. It’s called “Dear God, It’s Us,” a night in which we host readers to bask in nostalgia, sharing their most intimate and embarrassing past diary entries.
Nora Ephron once said, “When you slip on a banana peel, people laugh at you. But when you tell people you slipped on a banana peel, the laugh is yours,” and I guess that’s the guiding philosophy behind the readings. Feelings and thoughts that were once painful, distracting, even shameful, become hilariously funny in retrospect, so why not share the joy of self-deprecation with an audience? It seems the more personal and specific entries are, the better they are received. In fact, the most popular pieces have concerned one of three things: love, sexual frustration, or the intersection of both.
I can only really speak for myself here, but I don’t think there is a single entry in any diary I’ve kept since entering middle school that doesn’t mention boys at least once. It’s as though there was some bullet point I had to check off in the rubric of crafting a well-rounded entry. I talked about what boys I liked, what boys I loved, what boys I kissed, what boys I talked to, what boys didn’t like me back, what boys I wanted to dismember, and which boy I thought I would like next. There are entire sections of my high school career that I can remember only by which boy I liked or was with.
Of course, this is kind of horrible. A victim of perpetually low self-esteem and a devout narcissism, I’ve spent the past four years overanalyzing moments and interactions for romantic and sexual meaning. I’ve filled my brain with knowledge of past pairings, crush’s interests, optimal hallway routes for cute boy sightings, and memories of monotonous interactions, and documented all of this in handwritten record. I cried over boys, spent time away from schoolwork and creative thought for boys, and cried over boys some more. I can’t even begin to fathom the amount of time, energy, and brain space, I’ve wasted on these many crushes, which sometime last year, I totaled to be around 35.
Now, it feels like this little part of my childhood has died. I still write about boys in my diary, it’s routine after all, but my updates are far more mundane. There is no longer a fiery spirit inside of me guiding interaction, no longing, no jubilance, no heartache. There are entire sections of my life that I remember only by a crush and my interactions with him. Now, I feel nothing—no undying love for anyone besides myself, and that confuses me. Without these phases of seeming love, who am I? How do I fill this void? And more importantly, how do I remind myself that I’m a human with feelings and desires? Is this the inevitable result of boredom or something greater? Have I changed forever? Will I ever “love” again?
Most importantly, why do anything if not for male validation? ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-29-2016/3/
Thahabu
I went to see Moonlight with a friend. I did not cry in the theatre but two hours later, in my dorm bathroom. The movie ascribes its main character—a black man, and many other black men—a sympathy and fragility that usually isn’t given them. So many people I know would benefit from watching the movie, but I remember a few days before the screening, I was online looking at comments, and this raggedy hotep suggested that black people should boycott the movie because it “emasculates black men” and “made the black community look bad.” Black men hurt, they cry, they break, and it frustrates me to no end that there are losers out there who think it makes them less of a man, because that attitude in turn teaches black men and boys that they should suppress these very important and real emotions. They go through so much, especially while living under white supremacy, they deserve to cry. None of those actions make you any less of a man, they make you human. 
There was one scene that made me go, “Oh my God, it’s really 2016.” I smiled. I would’ve cried but my tear ducts weren’t working for some strange reason. The shot is the antithesis of toxic black masculinity. It was surreal. It was something I thought could only happen in romance movies with an all-white cast. That’s all I’ll say. 
I think the universe is messing with me because I had the same reaction at a Mitski concert a few days ago. She had these two stellar bands opening up for her, and one of them was Weaves. I had never heard their music before that night, and I’m so happy I did. I walked into the venue to see a brown girl with curly hair singing at the center of the stage. She looked like angel, the way the soft red, blue, and orange lights enveloped and lit up her afro. I’m not sure why I was so surprised, but seeing her take that place on stage made me feel all warm and fuzzy on the inside. Jasmyn Burke’s voice has this bold matter-of-fact essence to it, and the loud guitar riffs and drums felt like an aggressive much needed embrace around my body. I swayed left to right as she sang, “I want two oceanss toonightttt.” It meant so much to me to see another brown girl doing punk, and then to find out that her first name is Jasmyn, spelled with no regard for the typical English spelling of it, just like me and other girls with unique names, I felt so represented and validated! 
These feelings were magnified once Mitski took the stage. “I want you to know this is your space…I want you to take up all the space,” she proclaimed to the audience. Tears slid down my cheeks, and before I knew it I was heaving and silent crying in the middle of the crowd. Her words reassured me that in a time like this, when people are going out of there way to make sure me and those who look like me will never feel safe, that there are people on my side and that this is just as much my world as it is anyone else’s. I spent my whole life feeling like I don’t belong, that there’s no place for me and I’m undeserving of respect and genuine relationships. Those thoughts invade my brain now more than ever with the recent election results. That is why I’m so thankful for women of color like Mitski, Jasmyn, Drea Smith, and Kayla Phillips in the punk scene. The way they choose take up space in such a white, male dominated genre fills me with this thick, sticky, overwhelming joy that I’ve never felt before. It makes me so much more comfortable with myself. 
Although these are scary times and some believe the culture is at an all-time low, I think we’re living in such an experimental and creative time for art. I keep thinking about how 20 or 60 years ago people were dreaming of attending concerts like that, or seeing a character like Chiron in Moonlight. They fought so hard to have a place in these artistic movements, and now we’re moving toward a point where marginalized people don’t have to abide by the rules of white supremacist capitalist patriarchy. I don’t have to be what you want me to be. I can and will do whatever I want. The future is such a beautiful place, and for the first time in my life I don’t wanna be anywhere else but here. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-30-2016/3/
Keianna
In the first week of school, my friend gifted me a cat-shaped coin purse that she had bought during a trip to Japan. I quickly made it my go-to wallet. Like most belongings that are very important to me I constantly checked up on it throughout the day, just to make sure it was still in my bag.
I spent the first part of Thanksgiving break at my grandmas’ house. We didn’t do much except watch Law and Order, Criminal Minds, and Blue Bloods. I’m not complaining AT ALL because those are my favorite shows, but on Tuesday I decided it was time to venture out of the house and see some friends. We skated (they skated, I fell off a skateboard a couple of times), shopped a little, and went for lunch. It was a really great day and the last thing we wanted to go do before I left to run errands with my grandma was go to the thrift shop.
This is the part in my story where my little coin purse and I part ways. It must have happened while I was trying on a pair of brand new shoes that would soon be the the peak of my thrifting career. As I pulled off my bag to check I had enough cash, I noticed that it was already unzipped. I figured I had just left it open by mistake, but ran a quick inventory of the contents of my bag just in case:
My jacket? Check
My camera? Check
My wallet?
My first instinct was to run as fast as I could to have an employee open the dressing room door. It had to be there. Everything was taking too long. Ignoring caution and running on adrenaline I knocked on the door of the dressing room to make sure no one was in there before I shimmed under the door. It wasn’t there. It wasn’t ANYWHERE in the store. 
By this point, I had been anxiously looking around the store for 10 minutes and my grandma had just walked it. Through my tears I told her what happened and waited for the scolding that didn’t come. She was gentle as she talked to the employees and kept her cool as we took the short bus trip to the bank to freeze my debit card. 
“There’s nothing we can do about it. This is your first adult problem.” 
She said a lot of other things to reassure me but those two phrases really stuck with me. There was no way I could go back in time and stop someone from stealing my wallet while I was distracted. I could blame myself and dwell on it all I wanted, but I’d done all I could. 
This was my “first adult problem.” So there’s more? It’s a common thing for adults to tell you that things only get harder when you complain about seemingly insignificant problems. That has often bothered me a lot, because I figured that they were just overdramatizing adult life. Oh ignorance, my old friend, please take me back! Maybe I’ll start carrying around stickers with words of encouragement to give to myself and my peers whenever we encounter an adult-sized hurdle.
Oh, and if anyone happens to be stopping by Japan in the next couple of days, can you pick me up a coin purse? ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-1-2016/3/
Lilly
Things never settle. I finish midterms, I meet with my advisor about research opportunities for the spring semester, I go on day-long field trips with my geology class, I somehow still have time to Skype my parents and hold movie nights with friends from astronomy class—there’s always something to do, something to keep me going. I should be tired, burning out like one of the supermassive stars I’ve been learning about, but instead, I’m happy. Happier than I was in high school, by far. More stressed, sometimes, yes. But I think I’m learning to discern positive stress from negative.
My geology professor turns to me in the van and says, “So what made you realize you wanted to do something in the sciences?” He knows I’m a declared physics and astronomy major, so my first instinct is to talk about that—about Carl Sagan and fooling myself into thinking I had glimpsed Jupiter’s moons through binoculars and the book of constellations that stayed on my nightstand for years. Instead, for some reason, I pause and collect myself.
“I guess it was because no one ever told me I couldn’t,” I say eventually.
People usually assume one of two things when they find out I was homeschooled until I was almost eight. Either I had a sit-down classroom experience (except in my own living room) or I ran wild and had no formalized education whatsoever. Truth be told, my life probably resembled the latter much more than the former, but that didn’t mean I wasn’t working toward my education. Sure, I spent a healthy amount of time outside, as should all six-year-olds with the means to do so, but I also read books (so many more than I have for the past few years!) and sped through math texts faster than my parents could find me new ones (and graduated to stealing my brother’s when the wait time did not satisfy). My education never felt like a chore or a responsibility. It was exciting. What will I challenge today? What will I conquer today? I threw myself at math problems and reading exercises with the same ferocity that I did my bicycle or soccer ball. No one ever told me that anything was supposed to be “hard,” so I assumed, with childish confidence, that obviously meant that nothing was hard.
And it’s amazing what borderline arrogance can accomplish. It honestly wasn’t until high school that people started telling me that school was supposed to be difficult—especially math and science: “Calculus is hard. Standardized tests are hard. Physics is hard, wWhy do you want to take physics?”
I shrugged and demurred and evaded these kinds of questions for so long, but I think I’m discovering the answer, or maybe rediscovering it: it’s because I like it. It really is as simple as that. It’s because these subjects I love were never presented to me as a task to complete or a hurdle to overcome, just as steps on the path to understanding.
You remember what you love. Think about how easily you sing along to your favorite song, or recall the score of that crucial game your team won, even all those years ago. (Maybe you’re like me, and incessantly quote Interstellar to your friends just to hear the characters repeat after you moments later, much to the chagrin of said friends.) Since I was homeschooled, I was able to apply this to everything I enjoyed from an early age—even those things commonly determined “hard.” But it doesn’t matter. It doesn’t matter if it’s difficult, so long as you love it anyway. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-2-2016/3/
Steffany
I’m not sure if I’ve ever had an experience much like what I’m living through. I imagine, years from now in someone’s living room, I’ll be describing this period of my life as formative. Maybe, I’ll embellish the drama, so that it feels as hefty as it does to me at this moment. And then I’ll laugh, because it’s far behind me. 
However, from where I stand, most days bring about some kind of drama. Whether it’s the politics of school, like the budget for events that’d bring Black artists on campus possibly being rescinded or trying to stay afloat in a sea of schoolwork, I’m barely getting any rest! I’m miserable some days, hanging in suspension and completely unsure others, but also fluid? 
I’m happy to be alive. I love my family (I will probably complain about them next week, that’s life!). I’m happy to be wearing my favorite jacket in the fall breeze. I’m getting a better understanding of and appreciation for who I am. Every day on this campus, I encounter a perception of myself. Some of these are projected and can be crushing, but I’ve managed to forge ahead with a strong sense of self anyway. 
I often have to just disengage. It took stepping back from everything to do that. It took going to D.C. It took staring down history and what came before me and deliberately looking for restorative moments. The most important moment of this week, which I hope to now make routine: Letting my twistout down and applying lipgloss while being completely enamored with my own image. Allowing myself to be vain, and with a nod and a wink to acknowledge that I love the woman I’m becoming. All the sleepless nights will result in something eventually. I’ll be a’ight. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-3-2016/3/
Keianna
For Halloween this year I was the grandaughter of Sam Manson—a character from the animated series Danny Phantom. I decided to be her granddaughter because I don’t like green, and I wanted to drop the color from my homemade costume. But it came to my attention that some people thought I’d chosen to be Sam’s granddaughter, rather than Sam herself, because my complexion is darker than hers. 
Here’s something that has always really bothered me: When black people cosplay or dress up as non-black characters they are dubbed “The black (insert character here).” People make it seem as though black cosplayers can be OK but never as good as others. This is a tricky subject. I’m not sure how I should go about explaining why this frustrates me so much, which is in itself…frustrating. 
As I prepared for Halloween, I was worried that I’d get into arguments over offensive costumes at school. *Sigh*. If only this time of year wasn’t so full of racial tension, and black teens were allowed to enjoy it without fear. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-4-2016/3/
My days have been looking up. —Amil
Britney
I know I will be able to fix everything that has been fractured in my life, recent things and a few guest issues from the past. Read More »
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-7-2016/3/
Simone
I am 30 minutes late for tech call because I vainly applied a peel-off face mask that only reddened my skin. I don’t care, because soon enough all of our faces will be red from laughter and the heat of overcrowded backstage spaces. 
In the tight room, the drama teacher’s office on stage left, we memorialize Vine through recitations of past favorites, discuss our love for the line “Boyioyioiyoioyoi” in Beyonce’s “Countdown,” and, most intimately, share confessions after poking a doll with safety pins. Actors come in with snappy requests for costume repairs and Scotch tape, to which we concede. 
Through the show, one at a time, we head to stage to do our quick changes. Right after the song about loving Charles Manson/Jodie Foster, I successfully remove Olivia’s dress without screwing up her mic. This is the only time I have to be responsible all night. 
The show is over, and so is Halloween, but we’ve spent the past hours providing costumes for the production, so why not preserve the spirit of dress up? Eliza, Elana, Zahra, and I dress up as Ricky, Angela, Plastic Bag, and Jane, from American Beauty, respectively. We head to Quick Chek to garner the necessary soft drinks and quarts of ice cream required to enjoy a party. 
At the after-party, we gather around a kitchen island with all the other tech crews, the pit band, the actors, and a lucky extraneous few we’ve decided can participate with us, and belt—the trained amongst the tone deaf—the jukebox showtunes of our time. We are the dancing queens, young and sweet, only 17.
I am so happy. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-8-2016/3/
Alyson
I look at scars like
they’re tattoos
Is there a story behind them?
Or did the ink nestle into skin
Without knowing any better?
God, restless with his quill,
Tired of being careful
With you?
Mine change colors
Groundbreaking technology
Islands on white water
Fogging over
So eyes don’t have to. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-9-2016/3/
Kiana
I once read a tweet that likened getting over someone to redecorating a room. Because I’m a person of pure melancholy, I twisted it to fit my own narrative; how that is so true in my life at present as we’re moving places and spaces, my grandmother and I. 
The spaces that we once owned, occupied, and decorated to our content are now spaces for the carpenters to dig a drill into or put a wall over. Mere spaces, yet in our minds, these spaces are draped with memories. GAH, I guess this is getting too sluggish, and I wish I was the kind of smart who can pull a quote off the top of their heads to juxtapose their experiences with The Greats, but unfortunately I’m not, and thank you for bearing with me. (A note: I googled “great writers on spaces” and “great writers writing about spaces” to up the Schmarty Marty, but all I got was a peek into their workspaces and offices; now I’m disappointed @ Google.) Now I’m all feverish thinking of the person I was prior to this house rehauling situation; that maybe I lost it as the walls were being hammered down to the ground? That maybe the creative direction and hard work that I put into decorating my walls (three times annually) will never again be in my grasp; the handwritten Edgar Allan Poe poems are gone and that one photo of Lorde that I’d printed was lost. That maybe who I was at that point in my life will never return to me again, because Forever Young is a fickle promise and any effort aimed toward an expedition to The Fountain of Youth is futile, and I will never be absolved of the “sin” of not archiving. DON’T I JUST LOVE CASTIGATING MYSELF.
I know I have been writing constantly about spaces lately, but I guess writing about it is my way of understanding and accepting, a way for me to devise a concrete action plan, or maybe this is just for posterity’s sake. It’s so conflicting for me to want to have a space (physical or otherwise) for myself when all my life I have been deprived of it, forced to contort and twist my body in whichever way and direction in order to fit. The default for as long as I can remember is that my race restricts me from light, loose, open spaces, thus I wasn’t able to pry myself open, my interests and desires, and investigate or observe “what makes me tick.” Every self-help book I’ve read asked the same questions: “What makes you tick? What do you like to do in your spare time? Who are you when the whole world is not watching?” The answer to all that, I don’t know. And maybe I should stop reading self-help books.
From inside my journal/head this week:
Maybe bad days are similar to advertisements between TV shows—annoying at times and intrusive, but they come and go. It is my duty now, then, as a human being undergoing growth right at this very moment (surprise!) to embrace and accept that there will be sad, bad days, mean days, days when I can’t hold a conversation for more than three minutes, and stop seeing these days as of my own willful creation, or as a reflection of who I Really Am. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-10-2016/3/
Fatma
I know I’m young, but my mind thinks as if I’m 70 years old. I’m constantly thinking about life after death and I believe in Heaven and Hell, so I keep wondering where I’ll be placed. On one hand, I follow the law, I’m a kind person, and I believe in God. However, I don’t cover my hair, I’ve never read parts of the Qur’an and I live a westernised lifestyle regarding the music and films I watch. I know that in my heart I’m a compassionate person, but I also know that although Islam is a reasonable religion at heart, that some Muslims are really hardcore with their beliefs and I’m not like that. 
I don’t know if I’ll make it in Heaven if there are billions of Muslims who have worn the hijab since they were teenagers or prayed five times a day for decades, and I’m standing there with my Kanye West CDs. Another thing that scares me is that God doesn’t like me. I try to talk to my dad about this but he tells me that we shouldn’t talk about God as though He’s a person. However, it comforts me when I imagine Him as a person. I really hope He likes me—I think He does, because He created me but I always have the slightest bit of doubt in my mind about whether He’s disappointed in me or not. I learnt in school that Heaven in Islam works like this: If someone wants something, they get it immediately. 
If I get there, I’m going to be in a movie theatre where everything is baby blue: the walls, the seats, the carpet, and there’s a big projector that’s playing The Royal Tenenbaums and the theatre is packed but everyone is silently watching the movie. My wish would be to never have to feel lonely again. 
There is a quote about death that makes me laugh and reassures me regarding my morbid thoughts: “If Heaven does exist, I’m worried that I get up there and there is a load of people who I know, who have annoyed me in this life and suddenly, I’m in this place with them, forever—people who were a pain in the ass. And suddenly, ‘Hi Karl, oh you’re dead, are you? Oh Jesus, you made it did you?’, forever”—Karl Pilkington—An Idiot Abroad, Season Three Episode Two (India). ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-11-2016/3/
Steffany
I’ve been thinking thinking thinking. I feel deeply that I’m going through a shift, a personal change that has been building up to this very moment. It’s weird, but it’s as if a wave came over me and I no longer have access to my former self. In the attempt to recover, I’m left only with picking up the pieces and figuring out who that person was, and how to reconstruct a better version. On an isolated college campus, you’re constantly going against projections of who people think you are while also trying to figure out who you actually are. These projections rear their ugly heads in all aspects of life here. I’ve found myself looking outward in hopes to see myself peering back through someone else’s art. This week, the profile of Zadie Smith in New York Times Magazine, articulated how I’ve always felt about process of dating, on campus especially. (I’m probably not gon’ get that MRS degree, y’all):
 Zadie’s status as a former ugly duckling has given her a provisional attitude toward her looks. “I did not mind dressing up for strangers,” her narrator remarks in a passage Zadie admits is characteristic of her own story, “but in our rooms, within our intimacy, I could not be a girl, nor could I be anybody’s baby, I could only be a female human.” 
I ask about that passage. “When I was growing up, just the whole idea of being a girl—it seemed like a lot of work to me. Even now, I will wear lipstick and mascara but I will not do anything else. I won’t do my toenails or my fingernails. I was terrible at dating because of what dating involves, the presentation of something.”
“You’re pretty presentable,” I say. 
“I am presentable, but it’s like Nick says: The moment I come in, it’s sweatpants, makeup off, huge crazed Afro.”
“Men have never noticed toenails or fingernails on women.” 
“I know. I also sense that. I often feel that women radically overestimate what men notice or care about.”
The work of being female, the performance of gender—Zadie has her limits. Whenever I compliment her on a dress she’s wearing, she tells me how cheaply she got it online. If I mention a new hairstyle, she thrusts a Cleopatran braid into my hand and says, “extensions.” Once, she called me from a hair salon, near tears, to say she couldn’t meet for dinner that night because her hair had “broken down” and she was going to have to shave her head and start over. When we finally got together, I expected her to look bristly headed and traumatized, like Dustin Hoffman in Papillon. But Zadie sauntered into the restaurant smiling, a mop of “Flashdance” ringlets bouncing around her face. Fake, too, apparently. Like femininity. Like literature. She wanted me to know.
Reading that passage planted both of my feet firmly in the ground. The bits and pieces that resonated were swiftly copied and pasted and sent to my friends. It’s all I can do until I can find a better way to articulate whatever this moment in my life is. Yeah, I have a flare for the dramatic, but it feels particularly important, as though I’m on the edge of something great or something horrible—no middle ground. And whenever I slip too deep into the blues that comes with being a college student, or a Black woman in a very White (Liberal my ass, y’all don’t even know!) space, I find some form of upliftment in the work I see online, in cinemas, in books. Then, I’m reminded that everything will be fine and that in the end, I’ll come out of all this a badder bitch. Word to Nicki. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-14-2016/3/
Keianna
Dear Lauren,
I thought it’d be easier to write this letter while you’re still here, because I know I will be very emotional when it’s time for you to leave. When we all met in the psychology room you were alone and I was very much in the mindset that Charlotte was my only friend and that was fine. Over a couple of weeks, we learned each other’s names and many things about each other. You made it clear that you were only going to be here for a semester.
I see you every day yet I still get a twist of anxiety about what life’s going to be like without you. I suppose this is just the beginning of the end, but I don’t think it’s something I’ll get used to. I’m going to miss you. I’m going to miss walking out of first period and seeing you walk toward us. I’m going to miss you carrying around your skateboard even though you’re totally not supposed to have it during school hours. I’m going to miss your energy, openness, and ability to make anyone your friend. Knowing you are where you’re supposed to be and happy will get me through you not being here. You haven’t even gone yet and I’m looking forward to seeing you again! You’re important to me because you gave me a new perspective when I needed one. We weren’t Charlotte and Keianna anymore. We’re Charlotte, Keianna, and Lauren. I’ve never had a friend with a time limit but I’m glad it was you, Lauren, because I’d rather have you for a little bit then not at all.
Yours always,
Keianna ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-15-2016/3/
Lilly
I leave the watch party at a quarter to midnight. It’s not much of a party anymore. I tell my friends that I’m going to bed, sit in darkness for five minutes, then rejoin them in the hallway. We sit cross-legged and stare into space for hours. I tell myself that I won’t cry, that I will be strong, stoic in the face of the unknown. My face burns with the effort. I never let out a sob, but the tears run hot down my face as we all listen to each other, baring our fears until we’re all talked out and silence falls again, no one daring to check their phones, trying to salvage comfort simply in coexisting. Safe for the moment.
The next day is intense. My breath never catches, but the silent tears return when I walk into my linear algebra class and realize that my professor is wearing the same clothes he left in the night before, his eyes dark and weary and deep set. “Are you guys OK with not talking about math today?” he says, and there is a hitch in his voice. We let him talk, tell us about his family, because we can see that he needs this as much as we do. When I hand in my finished exam to my geology instructor halfway through the period, unable to focus on it for even a second longer, I see in his eyes nothing but regret for putting us through this after what was, for many, a sleepless night. And while my astronomy professor is almost visibly holding himself back, doing his best to give us something ordinary to cling to, he is the first to leave the room after dismissing class and the Post-It note on his door says, “Sorry, everyone, no office hours this afternoon.” We are all too tired, too preoccupied trying to cope.
I find myself torn again, and this time it cuts me differently, but no less deep. Because while my friends are going to protests, making their voices heard, I am drowning in a physics problem set in the sickly fluorescent light of my dormitory. Studying feels at once a luxury and a responsibility, especially what I am studying. Do I really dare cast my net out into the far reaches of the universe when there’s so much to attend to on our own planet? Isn’t there something inherently selfish about pursuing astronomy?
Carl Sagan said in Contact, “For small creatures such as we, the vastness is bearable only through love.” It was his birthday on November 9. He would have been 82. This is not about me, and right now it is not my voice that needs to be heard. But I will do what I can. I will do what I can. I will do what I can. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-16-2016/3/
Alyson
Thoughts:
a) Who am I without my emails?
b) When I see people kiss on TV, I know what they mean now.
c) I think God’s laughing at me and I keep saying “Whhaaaat??” and He just keeps laughing, lol.
d) When I say “I love you,” am I saying it to you or to the screen?
e) Mom couldn’t have picked a worse photo of me to put on the calendar this year, thx.
f) I’m a random millennial, pick me!
g) Take a Chance on Me: The Story That Never Came to Exist
h) Maybe I won’t be alone at prom this year?
i) Funny how I said “no one cares about me here but a lot of people cared about me in NY,” when what I meant to say was, “No one is attracted to me here; a lot of people were attracted to me in NY,” which is maybe the opposite of caring.
j) How are my prompts doing? Instead of how am I doing? ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-17-2016/3/
Kiana
According to the website Brain HQ:
Brain plasticity is a common term used by neuroscientists, referring to the brain’s ability to change at any age—for better or worse. As you would imagine, this flexibility plays an incredibly important role in our brain development (or decline) and in shaping our distinct personalities…Brain plasticity science is the study of a physical process. Gray matter can actually shrink or thicken; neural connections can be forged and refined or weakened and severed. Changes in the physical brain manifest as changes in our abilities. 
It’s not too late. It’s not too late for me to spit your name out of my swollen mouth, where once on a lonely school night I practiced saying your name aloud like a prayer, a siren’s call. It’s not too late; I can unhinge myself from the roughness of your hands, the grit of your eyes, the wayward glance that shifts from heartstring to heartstring. It’s not too late to sever the neural connections that link me to you, and you to me, like speeding past a red light and cutting through the traffic to get to a destination—frightening, but it will be worth it. It’s not too late to remember that I need to forget in order to survive; to remember that I need to survive in order to run to places that don’t rhyme with your name; to remember to survive even with the words “Kiana, you’re beautiful just the way you are” still in the recesses of my brain, unchanged even by the makeup of my physical brain. Science can speak up for me.
“Does analogy make emotion less sincere?” asks Chris Kraus’s I Love Dick. Will writing about you mercilessly suspend the impending incurable disease? Or will digging through the grave bring me back to the very bones and insects that have come haunting me every night for the past five, six, seven years?
From my journal this week: “Maybe you can’t forget because you keep trying to remember.”
Some Roland Barthes, from A Lover’s Discourse, for fuck’s sake:
To reduce his wretchedness, the subject pins his hope on a method of control, which permits him to circumscribe the pleasures afforded by the amorous relation: on the one hand, to keep these pleasures, to take full advantage of them, and on the other hand, to place within a parenthesis of the unthinkable those broad depressive zones which separate such pleasures: “to forget” the loved being outside of the pleasures that being bestows.
The above could be compared to Sylvere (in Kraus’s I Love Dick): “I may be leaving the scene of the crime, but I can’t let it fade out into nothingness.” So, I write.
I’m outside looking up at the supermoon in Taurus and wishing my stars a lovely lifetime, however long they may be. This is by far the most effective belief system I’ve ever held. 
Do you remember the last time you looked at the stars and saw them as just stars, just there, not meaning or symbolizing anything? ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-18-2016/3/
Thahabu
I think my initial shock and outrage over Donald Trump winning the election has somewhat subsided. But the image of my friend Jonathan, who is Mexican, breaking down and crying next to me at a bar as we watched Trump take Pennsylvania, is on replay 24 hours a day on the biggest and fanciest IMAX screen in my subconscious, accompanied by the loudest state of art surround sound system. 
I swear to you, I wake up every morning now thinking it was all a nightmare, that the election hasn’t happened yet and I’m still underwhelmingly convinced that Hillary Clinton will win. This has to be my brain trying to cope with the trauma, because I can go the whole morning functioning in this state of denial until I leave the comfort of my room, and unfortunately remember I am not a character in Inception. The memory of Jonathan looking at the TV screen jokingly saying, “Oh my God, he’s really winning,” with a hint of consternation, then pausing only to repeat himself as he starts to choke up and cry makes its way to the epicenter of my brain and I start to cry, too. What makes this moment so emotionally charged for me (besides seeing my friend cry) is that it was the breaking point, the point of no return. 
Minutes before his breakdown I still thought everything was going to be OK and Trump’s run was a joke. I was laughing. I still thought Hillary could catch up, we still had about two hours until the polls closed. His tears knocked me off my dreamy watchtower. A rapist who ran his campaign based on racism, xenophobia, and sexism is poised be our president after winning the electoral vote. I rubbed his back and began to cry, “We’re not gonna let them get away with this, Jon. This was your country before anyone else’s. We’re gonna fight. I’m gonna fight with you.” 
I really thought I was over this, but last night I left tears on the train floor for the fifth time this week. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-21-2016/3/
Britney
Ends that I want:

 High school (now, for the break, so I can leave the city, which I’ve grown to hate).
 High school (later, when I make the final break and mourn my adolescence—but not how it was spent, rather I’ll lament what was not and maybe could not have been).
 My flailing.
 The blockage of all the writing I vowed to spill from my open cuts.
 My quicksand escape into memory.
 The inability to fit cleanly into my ideal perception of “good” and of “worthy”; the inability to leave my thinking once I recognize its irrationality; the floating.
 This stupid class.
 This stupid strife. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-22-2016/3/
Ananda
Beautiful disasters:
A crushed flower on the pavement.
Sunshine peeking through the trees and into your eyes.
Breakfast with one mouthful left.
Hot chocolate before the marshmallows have melted.
Long silences as we look into each other’s eyes.
You:
Photographs where you’re blinking.
Singing at the top of your lungs even though you can’t hold a note.
Lipstick stain on your skin.
Lights being put away on Boxing Day.
Sex after a fight.
Hugs goodbye.
Spilling glitter on the carpet.
Snow seeping through your shoes.
A love song crossed out with pen.
Me:
Coffee cake.
Reading the same book for the fifth time.
Dreaming of you and waking up.
Presents you pretend to like.
Sleeping without you. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-23-2016/3/
Keianna
My age is hindering me, and that fact has been on my mind for most of the month. I’m too young to make big decisions by myself but old enough to understand that I’m missing out on some cool experiences. On top of that my life just seems to be one inconvenience after the next—they range from minor to major but happen constantly. These two things have left me with a lingering feeling of dissatisfaction and sadness that I’ve been unable to shake.
I allow myself 10 minutes to get settled in when I get home from school before starting my homework, which doesn’t get finished until right before I have to go to bed. This leaves little time for the social activities I used to be able to enjoy. When we moved a couple cities away from school I didn’t think it would hurt my social life as much as it has. No one really likes driving to pick me up, and getting rides is always a problem. My sisters and I get along most of the time but because they are twins and there is an age gap of three years between us, they prefer each other’s company. There are tons of people in my house but I feel like I’m by myself all the time. 
Last night, my best friend and I decided to see The Edge of Seventeen. Her mom picked me up and we did our usual routine of not really greeting each other until we were out of the car. As confidently as we could, we walked to the window and asked for two tickets. The employee responded with “Of course! Can I see a valid ID?” No you cannot, kind lady, because we are actual CHILDREN who don’t have the proper form of ID that would allow us to see an R-rated movie. Saddened, we decided to go get some food and figure out how to get tickets to the next showing. We got Chipotle, which I promptly dropped on the floor after a few bites because I’m a mess. Figuring there was no way we could get anyone to buy us tickets to the movie we wondered around the plaza. We bought matching hand sanitizers and CDs and enjoyed each other’s company.
When we finally got home, defeated and exhausted, I was welcomed by words of encouragement and love from my friends. It seems like they help me find the answers to every problem I have. While I still feel that small air of sadness around me, they help me forget about it for a little while. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-25-2016/3/
Alyson
My room is cold. I walk into my bathroom and wonder why I ever thought so. I come back and I know why.
I have gone to the library to do my writing. I do so much there that I can’t believe it’s my hands that have done all the work. The library is room temperature.
Hot yoga is hot. I never put my fingertips on the floor even when we are supposed to, because there are little islands of sweat that used to be inside of me but now are not. Madness. I always have to pull my pants up so my underwear doesn’t show.
Oil pastels are hot and Google Docs is lukewarm. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-28-2016/3/
Simone
I’m reading through old diaries and recounting memories in preparation for an event I plan with my friend every few months. It’s called “Dear God, It’s Us,” a night in which we host readers to bask in nostalgia, sharing their most intimate and embarrassing past diary entries.
Nora Ephron once said, “When you slip on a banana peel, people laugh at you. But when you tell people you slipped on a banana peel, the laugh is yours,” and I guess that’s the guiding philosophy behind the readings. Feelings and thoughts that were once painful, distracting, even shameful, become hilariously funny in retrospect, so why not share the joy of self-deprecation with an audience? It seems the more personal and specific entries are, the better they are received. In fact, the most popular pieces have concerned one of three things: love, sexual frustration, or the intersection of both.
I can only really speak for myself here, but I don’t think there is a single entry in any diary I’ve kept since entering middle school that doesn’t mention boys at least once. It’s as though there was some bullet point I had to check off in the rubric of crafting a well-rounded entry. I talked about what boys I liked, what boys I loved, what boys I kissed, what boys I talked to, what boys didn’t like me back, what boys I wanted to dismember, and which boy I thought I would like next. There are entire sections of my high school career that I can remember only by which boy I liked or was with.
Of course, this is kind of horrible. A victim of perpetually low self-esteem and a devout narcissism, I’ve spent the past four years overanalyzing moments and interactions for romantic and sexual meaning. I’ve filled my brain with knowledge of past pairings, crush’s interests, optimal hallway routes for cute boy sightings, and memories of monotonous interactions, and documented all of this in handwritten record. I cried over boys, spent time away from schoolwork and creative thought for boys, and cried over boys some more. I can’t even begin to fathom the amount of time, energy, and brain space, I’ve wasted on these many crushes, which sometime last year, I totaled to be around 35.
Now, it feels like this little part of my childhood has died. I still write about boys in my diary, it’s routine after all, but my updates are far more mundane. There is no longer a fiery spirit inside of me guiding interaction, no longing, no jubilance, no heartache. There are entire sections of my life that I remember only by a crush and my interactions with him. Now, I feel nothing—no undying love for anyone besides myself, and that confuses me. Without these phases of seeming love, who am I? How do I fill this void? And more importantly, how do I remind myself that I’m a human with feelings and desires? Is this the inevitable result of boredom or something greater? Have I changed forever? Will I ever “love” again?
Most importantly, why do anything if not for male validation? ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-29-2016/3/
Thahabu
I went to see Moonlight with a friend. I did not cry in the theatre but two hours later, in my dorm bathroom. The movie ascribes its main character—a black man, and many other black men—a sympathy and fragility that usually isn’t given them. So many people I know would benefit from watching the movie, but I remember a few days before the screening, I was online looking at comments, and this raggedy hotep suggested that black people should boycott the movie because it “emasculates black men” and “made the black community look bad.” Black men hurt, they cry, they break, and it frustrates me to no end that there are losers out there who think it makes them less of a man, because that attitude in turn teaches black men and boys that they should suppress these very important and real emotions. They go through so much, especially while living under white supremacy, they deserve to cry. None of those actions make you any less of a man, they make you human. 
There was one scene that made me go, “Oh my God, it’s really 2016.” I smiled. I would’ve cried but my tear ducts weren’t working for some strange reason. The shot is the antithesis of toxic black masculinity. It was surreal. It was something I thought could only happen in romance movies with an all-white cast. That’s all I’ll say. 
I think the universe is messing with me because I had the same reaction at a Mitski concert a few days ago. She had these two stellar bands opening up for her, and one of them was Weaves. I had never heard their music before that night, and I’m so happy I did. I walked into the venue to see a brown girl with curly hair singing at the center of the stage. She looked like angel, the way the soft red, blue, and orange lights enveloped and lit up her afro. I’m not sure why I was so surprised, but seeing her take that place on stage made me feel all warm and fuzzy on the inside. Jasmyn Burke’s voice has this bold matter-of-fact essence to it, and the loud guitar riffs and drums felt like an aggressive much needed embrace around my body. I swayed left to right as she sang, “I want two oceanss toonightttt.” It meant so much to me to see another brown girl doing punk, and then to find out that her first name is Jasmyn, spelled with no regard for the typical English spelling of it, just like me and other girls with unique names, I felt so represented and validated! 
These feelings were magnified once Mitski took the stage. “I want you to know this is your space…I want you to take up all the space,” she proclaimed to the audience. Tears slid down my cheeks, and before I knew it I was heaving and silent crying in the middle of the crowd. Her words reassured me that in a time like this, when people are going out of there way to make sure me and those who look like me will never feel safe, that there are people on my side and that this is just as much my world as it is anyone else’s. I spent my whole life feeling like I don’t belong, that there’s no place for me and I’m undeserving of respect and genuine relationships. Those thoughts invade my brain now more than ever with the recent election results. That is why I’m so thankful for women of color like Mitski, Jasmyn, Drea Smith, and Kayla Phillips in the punk scene. The way they choose take up space in such a white, male dominated genre fills me with this thick, sticky, overwhelming joy that I’ve never felt before. It makes me so much more comfortable with myself. 
Although these are scary times and some believe the culture is at an all-time low, I think we’re living in such an experimental and creative time for art. I keep thinking about how 20 or 60 years ago people were dreaming of attending concerts like that, or seeing a character like Chiron in Moonlight. They fought so hard to have a place in these artistic movements, and now we’re moving toward a point where marginalized people don’t have to abide by the rules of white supremacist capitalist patriarchy. I don’t have to be what you want me to be. I can and will do whatever I want. The future is such a beautiful place, and for the first time in my life I don’t wanna be anywhere else but here. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/11/dear-diary-november-30-2016/3/
Keianna
In the first week of school, my friend gifted me a cat-shaped coin purse that she had bought during a trip to Japan. I quickly made it my go-to wallet. Like most belongings that are very important to me I constantly checked up on it throughout the day, just to make sure it was still in my bag.
I spent the first part of Thanksgiving break at my grandmas’ house. We didn’t do much except watch Law and Order, Criminal Minds, and Blue Bloods. I’m not complaining AT ALL because those are my favorite shows, but on Tuesday I decided it was time to venture out of the house and see some friends. We skated (they skated, I fell off a skateboard a couple of times), shopped a little, and went for lunch. It was a really great day and the last thing we wanted to go do before I left to run errands with my grandma was go to the thrift shop.
This is the part in my story where my little coin purse and I part ways. It must have happened while I was trying on a pair of brand new shoes that would soon be the the peak of my thrifting career. As I pulled off my bag to check I had enough cash, I noticed that it was already unzipped. I figured I had just left it open by mistake, but ran a quick inventory of the contents of my bag just in case:
My jacket? Check
My camera? Check
My wallet?
My first instinct was to run as fast as I could to have an employee open the dressing room door. It had to be there. Everything was taking too long. Ignoring caution and running on adrenaline I knocked on the door of the dressing room to make sure no one was in there before I shimmed under the door. It wasn’t there. It wasn’t ANYWHERE in the store. 
By this point, I had been anxiously looking around the store for 10 minutes and my grandma had just walked it. Through my tears I told her what happened and waited for the scolding that didn’t come. She was gentle as she talked to the employees and kept her cool as we took the short bus trip to the bank to freeze my debit card. 
“There’s nothing we can do about it. This is your first adult problem.” 
She said a lot of other things to reassure me but those two phrases really stuck with me. There was no way I could go back in time and stop someone from stealing my wallet while I was distracted. I could blame myself and dwell on it all I wanted, but I’d done all I could. 
This was my “first adult problem.” So there’s more? It’s a common thing for adults to tell you that things only get harder when you complain about seemingly insignificant problems. That has often bothered me a lot, because I figured that they were just overdramatizing adult life. Oh ignorance, my old friend, please take me back! Maybe I’ll start carrying around stickers with words of encouragement to give to myself and my peers whenever we encounter an adult-sized hurdle.
Oh, and if anyone happens to be stopping by Japan in the next couple of days, can you pick me up a coin purse? ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/10/dear-diary-october-3-2016/3/
Ananda
I went into hospital on Wednesday where I had surgery on my jaw. I had to stay there overnight through Thursday evening. 
My mum has been looking after me. I won’t be able to eat solid, chewable food for maybe a month or two, so she’s been making me all kinds of soups and mashes and smoothies. And it’s so nice but also…I would kill for some ribs right now.
I forget how much of my self-confidence is tied to the way I look—specifically my face. My face has swollen up a lot and I don’t look or feel like myself. I can’t feel from my lower lips to my chin and there’s a 10 percent chance it will stay like that, which really scares me. 
I’ve missed some college, another thing that is stressing me out as I’m gonna have to take another week off for recovery. I’m currently writing a list of foods I want to eat once I get my jaw back. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/10/dear-diary-october-4-2016/3/
Keianna
It’s funny how you look forward to things for so long and then they turn out completely differently than you were expecting. Mostly when this happens, it means that something went wrong and the day was ruined. This was not the case at all. 
They announced senior movie night about a week ago. There was a poll on the senior Twitter page to choose the movie and Napoleon Dynamite beat out Nacho Libre, much to my amusement and my best friend’s disappointment. Either way, we were going and I was looking forward to it. I envisioned it as all of the seniors crammed into our paw shaped quad, laughing and passing around popcorn.
Instead it was a handful of groups scattered around the quad. This worked out in my favor. First of all there was a lot more pizza and candy to go around, which I wasn’t complaining about at all. Secondly, due to my overwhelming need to procrastinate on EVERYTHING in my life I still had to interview people for a project in my video production class. The smaller number of people put me at ease resulting in more relaxed, fun interviews. 
The atmosphere was happy, a candy-induced kind of high that stayed with me throughout the weekend. So when I woke up early and made my way to Saturday school just to find out it was canceled I wasn’t bitter at all. Not even a little. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/10/dear-diary-october-5-2016/3/
Lilly
The first month of college in a few inevitabilities:
1. You will, at some point, resent your roommate over some incredibly insignificant issue. With a bit of luck, this phase will be brief.
2. You will get the freshman flu no matter how confident you are that you won’t. It will flatten you two days before your first astronomy exam and you will lie in bed with your eyes on fire and fume feverishly at the world. It will pass quickly but not quickly enough.
3. You will scrape by with a passing grade on one of your early tests or quizzes, no matter how easy you think your classes are. You will be excruciatingly glad to hear the words “don’t worry, everything gets curved up.” You will try to forget that will not always be the case. You will study harder for the next one.
4. You will make a friend and they’ll be the only person you want to hang out with for a solid week. You will control yourself. You will remember that everyone has friends and lives of their own. You will give them space. You will text your friends back home and tell them that you miss them.
5. You will deal with a guy who thinks he knows everything. “Linear algebra isn’t that hard,” he will say. “I take it you didn’t take any calculus in high school if you’re taking a course like this.” You will tell him that you took three semesters of college calculus. He will scoff a little. “And you didn’t do matrices? Really?”
6. You will look at internships and summer research projects and the accomplishments of those who have come before you and wonder if you will ever be able to live up to what they did. All the applications ask for résumés and letters of recommendation and a laundry list of your programming and laboratory experiences. You will stay up too late writing programs to automate your physics homework and it will all feel like it is for nothing anyway.
7. You will let yourself get caught up in the fear that you are wrong about yourself and maybe always have been. You will remember the high school principal who told you to be an American Studies major, the other kids who told you not to waste yourself on theory, not when “what we need are more engineers!” You will find yourself on your college’s website, looking up requirements for majors that divert further and further from what you’ve always seen yourself pursuing. Geology. Environmental studies. Law. Classics. Linguistics—
8. You will re-center yourself.
9. You will tell yourself that you belong.
10. You will read the stories of those who have done it before you and force yourself to no longer be intimidated.
11. You will go to student night at the campus observatory and see the Andromeda Galaxy and the Ring Nebula and your friend will say how thankful she is for the clear night, and you will think how thankful you are for the clear head. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/10/dear-diary-october-6-2016/3/
Cammy
I just realized how much I know about the people I know, and how they don’t know that I know super intimate things about them. I’m only close with a few people, but it just clicked that I know things about my classmates that their friends don’t even know. 
It all comes from this one friend who tells me a lot of other people’s business. I don’t blame that person for being a bad friend and telling everyone’s business, though. If I was a different person—if I liked to exploit and manipulate people—it would be bad that I know all this information, but I’m not. At worst, I just look at people differently, and they chalk it up to me being weird. 
It’s cool to be behind the scenes, although it sometimes convinces me that I know that person better than I really do. It traps me in this place of knowing too much and then it gets kinda hard to develop an actual friendship with someone when you know every single person they’ve hooked up with, or how sad they really are that their girlfriend dumped them. 
I really value my privacy and I don’t like people to learn about me from other people. I like to be in control of how well others know me. So it feels as though I’m totally invading people’s lives. I guess I could ask my friend to stop telling me all this stuff, but I don’t really want them to? I tell myself that I’m not a bad person for knowing, but being in this situation of knowing too much constantly makes me feel really conflicted. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/10/dear-diary-october-7-2016/3/
Steffany
The past two days have been long, I haven’t slept much. I spent all of Wednesday and the early hours of Thursday being a record keeper of some sort—sitting at a computer and articulating everyone’s version of what had gone down mere hours before. We had to be careful, we couldn’t be seen as too upset, because then the role of victim would be placed on the abuser and not on the people on the receiving end of their vitriol. During my friend’s evening radio show slot, a conversation was sparked up about cultural appropriation. The co-hosts, one of them a friend of mine, are Black women. Wanting to open the conversation up to a broader audience, they allowed people to call in. 
I had a radio show last year, the station is a rinky-dink operation run out of the basement of a residence hall building. It’s run by a small staff of students, one a cultural appropriator herself, a white woman with long dreadlocks. She later said she felt victimized by the conversation on the air, but more on that later. The phone system there is pretty much a basic house phone plugged into headphones, which allows the hosts to hear the call and reply to the listener. The call is also broadcast so that the listeners can hear it, too. A red light shines, and you know you have a new caller. Since there is no caller ID, shenanigans often ensue. At most, petty arguments commence and at the least, you recognize your friend on the other end of the line being silly and you all laugh about it. 
The first call happened about seven minutes in. “Can someone help get my big black cock out of this shampoo bottle?” It was juvenile and meant to be joke. It’s always a joke, except when it isn’t funny. And it wasn’t funny when the third and fourth and fifth calls poured in calling the hosts the N-word and “cunts.” When listeners of the show—in their dorms, on the quad, out and about—heard this, they reacted. One such listener, and a friend of mine, reacted out loud. Her suitemates came in to see what was bothering her. Then, the girlfriend of the caller who lived in the dorm, identified her boyfriend’s voice on the other end. 
The abusive calls were persistent, happening within a few minutes of each other. Other people genuinely wanted to engage in the conversation at hand, the radio show began as an outlet (one of the few) on campus for barbershop talk. And yet, we weren’t even allowed to have that. Tensions were already high after the Black student body decide to create a Facebook group where we could all communicate with one another. “Why do they need a separate group?” “I’m Native American and White, why can’t I join?” “Why is it just Black, what about other people of color on campus?” This however, just wasn’t OK. Once the name of perpetrator got out, there were a bunch of reasons why it couldn’t have been him! Here are a few: 

 As a Black man, I have class with John* everyday! I even sit next to him. He’s never seemed uncomfortable with my presence, he can’t be a racist!
 As his best friend, I’m telling you John is thee nicest guy! Please don’t be upset with him, he didn’t mean it if he did do, but I don’t think he did it. Too out of character!
 I don’t care if he did or didn’t do it, he’s my friend and if one of you think about doing something to him, you’ll have to go through me first!
 As his girlfriend, oh god, I know it was his voice but he didn’t mean it! It wasn’t actually him, it was his friend from Texas. Texas is a racist place, right?! So, it’d only make sense it wouldn’t be him. Please try to understand, I’m so scared for his safety.

Fear for John’s safety was a persistent theme when it came to his defense, as though the hosts hadn’t been made to feel the least bit afraid. The hosts convened with members of the Black student body in a space the school had given to us in response to a hate crime incident on campus two years ago. We watched Crooklyn, we laughed, we cried. There was a lot of crying: crying from anger, crying in response to seeing your friend angry, crying because you’re helpless. The perpetrator had become the victim; the narrative that angry Black people were going to engage in a witch hunt that night were much more pervasive than the truth. The truth being that we just wanted him to admit his wrongdoing, apologize to the women he’d attacked, and have it never happen again. 
Somewhere in the midst of consoling the people involved, the hosts received an email telling them their radio show would be cancelled due to racist content—not the content of the calls into the station, but the nature of the conversation. We decided to go to the people in charge of these kinds of things. We had an impromptu meeting and the people in charge were very receptive to our demands: Reinstate the show, and reprimand the person who cancelled it without consulting anyone on taking the show off the air or making an attempt to reach out to any of the parties involved to solve this serious issue. 
Statements had to be typed up to forward to people higher in the chain at this institution. I took it upon myself to type them. It was the least I could do. My heart broke for the girls. I hope justice is served, but it doesn’t look like that will be the case. It might just be a slap on the wrist because of “a friend in Texas” who was his accomplice on the phone, but who “said all the racist stuff.” It’s just too suspect for me to believe. His girlfriend identified his voice specifically. The school said they were going to take it seriously (rightfully so) and I read what I believe to be an insincere apology on his end. He needs suspension at least. I’m relieved however that the show is back! Things have calmed down tremendously, giving way to an unspoken but palpable divide on campus that I don’t feel is going away anytime soon. ♦
*Names have been changed.
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/10/dear-diary-october-10-2016/3/
Lilly
It is a rare occasion—I am in a room in a science building on a big university campus near my own college, and everyone with me is a woman. “I’m a fifth-year grad student,” says someone at my table, and after I introduce myself she exclaims, “A freshman?” The panelists introduce themselves and one by one lists of their extensive accomplishments flash by on the projector. I am impressed, curious, intimidated. Mostly intimidated, I realize as the night goes on. Other undergraduates ask questions about getting internships at NASA and extensive research opportunities and I think that as silly as it sounds, sometimes I have to remind myself that this isn’t high school anymore. This is my adult life, and it is what I make of it, and what if I don’t have the drive? What if I’m not outgoing enough? What am I going to do?
I spend the next 18 hours with a live wire running through my bones, hardly able to focus in my physics lab the next morning, ironically enough, and finally retreating to a corner of the science building on campus to try to channel some of this nervous energy into my homework. It’s quiet for a while, everyone else at lunch or in labs of their own, when I hear footsteps and look up and find my astronomy professor heading straight for me.
I freeze, because I’ve been biting my nails since leaving the panel last night over how to email him and ask about research opportunities and the physics major—he’s not my advisor yet! Would it be awkward?!—but all he says is, “How was the exam yesterday?”
Right. Thanks for the reminder. “It was…OK,” I say. It’s not a lie. It was OK.
“Do you think you did well?” he asks.
“I got blindsided by a couple questions,” I tell him honestly. “But for the most part, yes, I think so.”
“Well,” he says. “I wouldn’t worry. You did very well. You have one of the best grades in the class.”
He sees my physics textbook and asks me what other classes I’m taking. “I’m guessing that physics class is excruciatingly boring for you,” he says, and I can’t tell him it’s not, not when the last time I did kinematics like this was in September, two years ago. He also says, “Come talk to me sometime and we’ll see what we can do about skipping you out of the next semester of the astronomy sequence.” He also says, “There’s an event in November, we do it every year—about summer research, for students who are interested.”
I don’t want to get my hopes up. I thank him, and mark my calendar for that event in November, and allow myself not to hope, but to speculate. Because if I’ve learned anything in my classes this year, it’s that I really think this is what I want to do with my life. Even if it means five years of grad school and who knows what beyond that. Even if it means putting myself out there, being an adult, relying on discipline instead of drive. I want to be the physics teaching assistant with office hours five nights a week, and the cool astronomy major who runs the observatory on public nights, and the grad student with a shabby apartment and years of research under her belt, and the electrical engineer with a past NASA job on her résumé. And all that will not be easy, but that doesn’t deter me anymore. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/10/dear-diary-october-11-2016/3/
Kiana
Finals week is eating me away. It’s always a question of whether I’m half-awake or asleep. Looking at myself kindly never amounted to much, except for today, when I’m trying to reconcile the years I’ve remained unmoved so as to remain untouched, safe in my own little breathing space. I hope this works the same tomorrow and the next day, except that I know it won’t.
An analysis, based on observation, of something predominantly wrong in the place I exist:
In my country, the Philippines, the most common public transportation in cities is the jeepney. It can carry 15 to 20 passengers, depending on its size, and at times it can even exceed that capacity. Whenever the jeepney is half-full and there a heavy load of passengers, the women are always urged to squeeze themselves into whatever tiny space they can, which is extremely uncomfortable, while the men are not told to close their fucking legs, even though, Dear Sir, you are manspreading the shit outta this meager, uncomfortable jeepney seat. I balk and take offense at the unconscious sexism of this, which no one ever talks about because it has become the norm. Male apologists retort, “If you want your ride to be comfortable, where you’re not asked to sit tight and move and squeeze yourself, then just take a cab. GEEZ.”
To do: Chip the borders of confined space as finals season of university chips away at every student’s heart. Reclaim and take up space. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/10/dear-diary-october-12-2016/3/
Cammy
For the past couple of weeks, I’ve been feeling the overwhelming urge to expand. Mostly creatively, although I’ve also been feeling the need to absorb everything. 
When I was younger, I didn’t really look for music I liked, I just listened to whatever my mom played on the radio in the car. Even when I started using Pandora, I never got involved in thinking about the people behind the music. I never even thought about searching for more music I might like. As a result, I’ve always felt behind in social and cultural development in relation to my friends. They know a lot of pop culture references and they went through that process of “finding themselves” way before I did. 
Now, though, I’ve been getting more involved in what I consume. I’ve recently watched a lot of important movies, and it actually feels really fun to enjoy the same experience as everyone else. I’ve been feeling more open-minded. I haven’t been too stressed either, lately. It feels like things are going my way. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/10/dear-diary-october-13-2016/3/
Ananda
October is the best month, the main reason being Halloween. Now Halloween isn’t as big a holiday in the UK as it is in the U.S. but it’s still pretty awesome. Halloween gives me the perfect excuse to get my SFX kit out, and the face and body paints, and just go to town. I’ve had Halloween parties for two years running, and while I didn’t really want to throw one this year I also didn’t want to break something that is almost tradition. So, I’m having a dinner party, fewer people, less stress, more food, more organized. I’m having it on the October 29, which happens to be the day I and a few of my friends are going to Comic Con. I shall be there dressed as a Vulcan. I hope to make it home by 6 PM to get the food prepared. 
On October 30, I hope to dress as an apocalyptic Snow White and go to an LGBT Halloween poetry night. Unfortunately, this year Halloween falls on a Monday, which means everyone has school and work. A few of us, however, plan on dressing up anyway and taking the college by storm. 
Now, I know it’s a little bit early to be saying the C-word but before we know it, it will be December and we’ll be panicking over what to get our loved ones for Christmas. This time of year feels like a big countdown until the day we can open socks in the morning. I’m gonna stop right there because my brain is getting excited about the prospect of decorations, and it’s not even November yet. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/10/dear-diary-october-14-2016/3/
Fatma
In my spare time, you can find me re-watching Solange’s “Don’t Touch My Hair” music video. Although 2016 feels like a weird Goosebumps episode (the horrors of Donald Trump, the large number of hate crimes against Muslims, police brutality against black people), I feel like Solange has brought a slice of sanity to Earth. 
The following are things that make me feel better after hearing something that should scare me but that I’m desensitized to, due to how bizarre 2016 has been:

Solange. Her name speaks for itself—it’s so complete. When I feel sad, or as if I have to escape my timeline, I listen to “Cranes In The Sky,” “Don’t Touch My Hair,” or “Weary.” The latter especially, sums up all that I feel but can’t express to other people. When Solange sings: “But you know that a king is only a man. / With flesh and bones, he bleeds just like you do. / He said, ‘Where does that leave you, and do you belong? / I do, I do,” it feels as though at least Solange understands my thoughts.
 Whatever Happened to Mason Reese. This short film, made by Brett Ratner (director of the Rush Hour franchise), is one of the special features on my Rush Hour DVD. Whatever Happened was made in 1990, and it’s said to be the first “real” film he directed, produced, and wrote. Whenever I’m sad, I watch it on YouTube and it makes me cry even more. By the end, I always feel better because I’ve released all of my sadness and negative emotions. I won’t ruin the film, because you may want to watch it, but all I will say is that the theme of role models and placing people on a high pedestal really resonates with me since I tend to do this with the celebrities whom I like.

Listening to Solange, I feel encouraged. What I like about her, and many other artists of colour that I’m fond of, is that after accepting that they have been labelled as outcasts, they take what they have and make something extraordinary. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/10/dear-diary-october-16-2016/3/
Everything is moving so fast, planning for the future is stressful. —Amil
Thahabu
I am one of those people who keeps all of their real problems locked away in a jar. I feel the top is beginning to give, my gooey emotions are bubbling past the lid, and I’m so on edge that anything, in any place can make me cry at moment. Read More »
Lilly
I spend the next 18 hours with a live wire running through my bones, hardly able to focus in my physics lab the next morning, ironically enough, and finally retreating to a corner of the science building on campus to try to channel some of this nervous energy into my homework. Read More »
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/10/dear-diary-october-17-2016/3/
Lilly
The world goes in and out of focus.
I declare my major one day—it is a triumph, a commitment, something that I am equally intimidated by and overjoyed about and do not regret one bit—and spend the next 48 hours with a splitting headache, like my brain revolting against the tidy routine I’ve developed over the past few weeks. I find myself lethargic, lazy, easily lost in distractions that I’ve been able to ignore for the past couple of months.
It’s not often that a college student will look forward to the start of the week more so than the weekend, but I find solace in my studies, feel safest doing my homework in the physics wing or crammed into a lecture hall for a colloquium or explaining an astronomy concept to a friend as we walk to lunch. I am living in the present only enough to focus on what needs to be done now—the rest of my awareness is cast far ahead, already formulating schedules for next semester and summer internship plans and a budding desire to do research abroad in a few years. But as divided as I am between the present and the future, I am not looking into the past, at all. That might be more of a relief than anything else—that I finally am beginning to separate myself from the face I put on in high school. That I can finally be true to myself, living in a world where people only know me how I make myself known.
Have I completely disengaged from my high-school self? No. I still struggle with asking for help. It still feels like a weakness, like I’m baring my throat to a hungry world. But it’s getting better. I can’t expect myself to know everything. If I did, I wouldn’t be here anyway. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/10/dear-diary-october-18-2016/3/
Alyson
I realized a few weeks ago that I could just go. I could leave in the car by continuing until the road was no more. What is holding me: something invisible. Sometimes it’s the things you don’t see that are the strongest. Like the vines I didn’t know I was growing, tying me within this city, closing my mind to the rest of the world. An ignorance brewing that I couldn’t help. I used half a tank of gas in three days trying to find a place at all satisfying to my soul. Not all suburbias are Coppola-approved. 
I keep checking the mail to see what exists. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/10/dear-diary-october-19-2016/3/
Ananda
Dear 14-year-old me,
You made it to 18! You never thought you would but you did it. You’ve done a lot of stupid things, but you’ve obviously done something right because you’ve gotten this far. 
I know life is really difficult right now, you’re ill and you’re gonna get worse before you get better, but you will get better. And so will your friends. You will always use your smile as a weapon, and that’s OK because that’s the only thing the demons respond to. 
Now I know you’re at the age where people are starting to get into relationships and even have underage sex, and in turn, you’re freaking out about being alone forever. To that I say, “Duudeee, you’re 14.” 
You’re going to get there, I promise. You’re gonna have amazing relationships and having amazing sex, but now you’re 14.
Oh yeah, and also your hella queer. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/10/dear-diary-october-20-2016/3/
Steffany
It’s been a super duper hectic time. So much work, so much on campus stress, and so little to look forward to. The one thing that has kept me going, as I’ve been crushed by the amount of school work I had to do, is a ticket to a Friday night showing of Moonlight. Sometimes, when I feel low, downtrodden, and borderline incapable, I have to look to Black art. Especially on a campus that affords us such little space to breathe. However, I’m not here to complain about that. I just have to keep my head down and do what I’m supposed to do. I can’t be caught up in the negative, although it gets hard not to be. The work I’m doing is semi-rewarding; I’m learning how to design magazines in one of my classes. In a way, it has exposed me to this love I have for design and layouts. Although my teacher has a tendency to be tough on us in a way I don’t appreciate, it’s one of those moments where you simply have to pick your battles. I was hoping I’d have a more upbeat diary entry this week. It’s just that each week finds me in the midst of a new controversy on this campus. A couple of weeks ago it was related to race. This week, I found out that someone whom I considered a friend is possibly an abuser of women, and that’s just been confusing and tough to deal with. I’ve also found a sense of resiliency in these past couple of weeks, but I’m not sure if I’m really being resilient or pushing everything into the periphery. I’m trying to avoid burning out. Pray for me. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/10/dear-diary-october-21-2016/3/
Going to my first haunted house soon! Looking forward to getting spooked! I also got invited to a halloween party for the first time! —Amil
Simone
As observation or experience has taught all of us, being young and black in public is dangerous. I walked over to investigate the situation, to find the woman—clearly intoxicated—stumbling, and screaming vulgarities. Read More »
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/10/dear-diary-october-24-2016/3/
Kiana
Fourth week of October: The break in my university semester is here. I’ve spent days lounging around in a bed in the living room, reading a book and intermittently falling asleep. When I wake, the light sits slanted across my cheek; I’m sweaty and it’s hot. 
There’s an upcoming beach trip with my Biology lab mates later this week, or soon enough to get my nerves all tangled, worrying about my body again and how I’ll look under the sun, fried and too brown for anyone’s liking.
I’m trying to accept the light coming in through the window and the new divisions of walls in our house since grandma had it remodeled and repaired four days ago. I’m trying to find the light source inside me, too, wherever it is located at the moment; scouring my brain for inspiring, uplifting platitudes left behind by the greatest hands, the greatest tongues.
I also started reading Chris Kraus’s I Love Dick—17 pages in and I’m gasping and wide-eyed. Pray for your dear girl, and thank the heavens for the great sis Chris. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/10/dear-diary-october-25-2016/3/
Thahabu
Yoga is a lot like prayer for me. I never really know who I’m praying to or if they’re listening, but I still trust that something’s out there. The same goes for yoga. I have to trust that my body will bend and stretch as much as the titanium rods in my spine allow, and know that with time I’ll get my core mobility back, even though that goal seems far fetched. I usually turn to prayer when I’ve exhausted all other options in a dire situation. I take comfort in knowing that I’ve done the best I can and can move on knowing everything is in the hands of some higher being (maybe? I’m still iffy if all this is real or not). It’s similar to the sense of renewal I get every time I come up from 30 seconds of camel pose. 
This love and respect I have for my body has taught me to have stronger faith in my instincts. I need to stop second guessing myself and go with what I feel when interacting with people and situations that make me uneasy. Sometimes in direct action work and organizing, you can start feel like everything you’re doing is pointless and the world is an evil place that will never change. Will anyone ever really care? What if everything I’m doing is pointless and we’re doomed? I’m a fool for caring so much. On Saturday night, those feelings punched me in the gut after a long day of lingering in my brain. I began to cry, as quietly as I could, making sure to not wake my roommate. As angry and defeated as I felt in those moments, I didn’t reprimand myself for caring about the two women of color who were shot by police last week, and the missing girl I see all over social media. My reasons for engaging in social justice work are extremely personal, not that anyone needs a “good” excuse to want to participate in social activism, but I have my reasons. I allowed myself to have these pervasive feelings, which is a monumental ordeal, because in previous crying sessions my brain was like, OH MY GOD, THAHABU STOP CRYING, YOU DON’T EVEN KNOW THESE PEOPLE!
I woke up around 9 AM the next day, still feeling down after the tsunami of tears that left my eyes the night before, but also knowing that I couldn’t stop caring and doing social justice work if I wanted to. There’s so much chaos in the world, and the only thing I can seek stability from is making sure I take my vitamins each day, do yoga, and pray—even though I don’t do the latter nearly as much as the other two. This is the first time in my life that I really am trying to build myself up and create a better me. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/10/dear-diary-october-26-2016/3/
Fatma
Today was super weird. First, I was magically good at sports: I think because I was pretending to be an actress playing the role of a coordinated person in gym class. Then, I sat with the popular girls at lunch. Jillian* (my friend who also hates gym class) and I sat there, feeling slightly uncomfortable and confused about how nice they were. It’s weird to think that I had pictured this group of girls as some weird, distorted version of the Plastics, when in actuality, they’re just as goofy as me. However Anna* (the leader of the group) did remind me of Regina George, not so much that she was mean but more of her confidence and power. 
After lunch break (or a lost episode of The Twilight Zone), I had English, which was really funny, because of the people I sit next to. It felt so weird to actually be smiling and laughing while in school. I used to associate school with rainy, grey days. Now it’s actually bearable. 
I guess when you open up to people, they let you in—99.9 percent of the time. ♦
*Names have been changed.
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/10/dear-diary-october-27-2016/3/
Ananda
I have just started to love my body. I have big hips and big breasts and a jiggly belly. I used to hate my body, I would focus on the fat, but there’s nothing wrong with fat! When it comes to other people, people I’m dating or sleeping with, I outwardly applaud their fat. So I decided to do the same for myself. I can be beautiful and sexy. I can be whatever I feel like, and that makes me feel powerful. This embracing of my body has made me get into and become aware of fashion. I like wearing black mesh and lace underwear with fishnet stockings and dark makeup. But sometimes I like to wear metallic tops and bright red skirts with shoes that really don’t match. Of course there are days when I can not decide, so I wear my black doc martins with rainbow knee socks and call it a look because it is.
To insert my queer into the way I dress and look, I wear an abundance of sparkly tights. I shave part of my hair and dye it an obnoxious red because I don’t care what you think. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/10/dear-diary-october-28-2016/3/
Alyson
I have had this fascination with wondering if anyone is writing about me. It generally comes along whenever I am admiring someone random who is living without knowing that I am thinking—going beyond thinking, writing—about them. That I am floating in someone else’s memory makes me want to remain afloat. Some people whom I want to know they are being written about:
Dear Jenna,
You are my inspiration to keep trying to be inspiring.
Dear Ryan,
My love for you is to the moon and back, making it officially taller than you.
Dear Sena,
Never have I wanted to be matching with someone more (in all senses of the word). 
Dear Roman,
I think you know more about me than I do, but I’m glad that it’s you. 
Dear Jerry,
I’m just really glad to see that you still have your Nordstrom-employee style wits about you.
Dear Ananda,
Your name means “bliss” in Sanskrit, if you didn’t know.
Dear Katie,
You changed me.
Dear Rob,
I’m so glad to look like you on the inside.
Dear Chris,
Thank you for taking me seriously since seventh grade.
Dear Mrs. R.,
You said you wouldn’t forget, and I think you have, but that’s OK.
Dear Valerie,
You are beautiful.
Dear Mr. M.,
Please reply.
Dear God,
I’m sorry. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/10/dear-diary-october-31-2016/3/
Kiana
It was a lazy day spent hiding behind memoirs, essays, and diaries compiled into a book. Three hours into waking up, I tiptoed around the kitchen and steamed bitter gourd in preparation for an omelette for breakfast and lunch. Since I don’t drink instant coffee anymore, I spent the morning stretching and screeching in my bed as I leafed through page after page of the greatest things ever written. Time and again, I stopped to take a breath—a side-effect of being utterly involved in one’s reading—and paused to wonder when will I ever not be surprised and enthralled by words put together with ease, gentleness, and charm. The repairs are still going on around the house. The walls are all a-jumble, a disarray of discarded old plywood with flower and puppy stickers pasted all over. My headache intensified as the day wore on.
I went out to run some errands under the glaring 3 PM sun and daydreamed of the time I recently had at the beach, where I jumped off a cliff, hesitant and frustrated at myself, and landed on my butt in the water. For a little context, the fall lasted approximately three seconds. On the fourth second, I felt a pain so sharp in my upper legs, but thankfully managed to swim still in the deep, terrifying, muted mint green sea. I remembered loving the color of the sea right from the minute my friends and I laid eyes on it; it was milky, muted, and not the intimidating blueness of most seawater. However, when I was up the steep cliff trying to initiate myself into jumping and just for fuck’s sake doing the thing, the muted mint green sea seemed to balk at me for having a brain that overthinks—an encumbrance. For context, the fall only lasted thre seconds, but I stayed brooding up on that steep cliff for about an hour, not afraid but frustrated at myself for thinking, thinking, thinking. In the 59th minute up on that cliff, I asked friends who were waiting for me on the ground to count to 10 as a cue for me to jump. Nine seconds into the countdown, I propelled my whole self into the dark nothingness of thin air. Wisps and whispers. Kiana, what have you done?, I remember asking myself, two seconds into the freefall. Splash…gravity worked like god’s mercy and I’m on earth again gasping for air. Then, the pain in the legs, and then, holy shit, swimming for dear life. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-1-2016/3/
Alyson
Like the flip of a coin, I will decide that I am worse than the boys. Sometimes. Worrying whenever I think about them that I could be just one girl in a pool of many in which they immerse themselves for entertainment. Worrying about myself. Myself.
How can I worry about them when I am the one digging pools to fill full of boys? Boys who may be/are definitely interested. Just to have them there. To pretend that they are simply good to look at when really…It raises the equity on the house, a pool does.
I don’t like myself for doing it, but it seems nearly survivalist when considering my underdeveloped personal constitution regarding boys and what to do with them. This is my Versailles; I’m sure they can appreciate being the single-minded court officials who were only after superficial things anyways. Or was that Louis XIV? Thinking that was all he could have wanted until his head hit the floor? ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-2-2016/3/
Fatma
My two week trip to Northern Cyprus was probably one of the most eye-opening experiences I’ve ever had, although I’ve been out there to visit family a handful of times. Then, I was less observant and I didn’t really have the same thoughts that I have now. I’m happy that I took my Moleskine and saved the memories that are making me miss Northern Cyprus now that I’m back home.
At one point during my trip, I wrote, “I felt kind of emotional, sitting on the balcony with everyone, as the sun went down. I finally felt like I wasn’t a foreigner. I felt like I finally belonged somewhere.” Those words really encapsulate how I felt. The English tourists who were visiting Northern Cyprus had the trouble of not knowing the language that everyone else was speaking, for once, English people felt how scary that feels. It’s a feeling that nearly all of my older family members had to deal with that when they moved to England in the ’80s. My whole life, I’ve been labeled a foreigner and as someone who doesn’t belong—that along with the troubles of being a Muslim. For example, the people in the airport checked me, because of my name. Who would’ve thought that I’m a human being and not a pet or a monster?
I also read a lot of The Autobiography of Malcolm X. It made me think about discrimination and the effect it has on young people. In one part, Malcolm X writes something about how white people pretend as if they’re opening the door to Black people, but they don’t actually open it; they don’t really see Black people. This really made me think about how minorities—but especially Black people—are looked at as aliens who don’t have feelings. Minorities have to work hard for weeks to get something that the people oppressing us can get in a day. 
My trip also got me thinking about village life and how, although I wasn’t brought up in a village, its principles are naturally instilled in me. This is when I wrote, “There is never a moment in the village when I feel hungry or lonely or empty inside. I never feel cold and neither does my heart. Village life is and always will be saved in my heart. The village is a part of my blood. It’s who I am. It will always be a part of me.” These feelings remind me that, through my dad and cousins who were born and live in Kaleburnu, the village that I’m from, I become a puzzle piece that fits in perfectly. The fact that I didn’t grow up there didn’t matter, it still felt like my home.
Now that I’m back, I feel complete. Northern Cyprus is my medicine—with it, I feel as though I can do anything. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-5-2016/3/
Lilly
I’m getting lost again. I’m halfway up a rock face, fumbling for a stronger grip. I’m done with my homework for the next week but so tired that I fall asleep at my desk the moment the pressure is off. I’m neglecting the rare few friends I’ve made here, and you’d think that they would be something to hold onto, but the relationships are too new, they haven’t fledged yet. I look up my school’s counseling services but my insurance policy is too long to read and I am too weary and I tell myself, I’ll do it tomorrow. I’ll feel better after I sleep anyway.
Sometimes I think that in the end my downfall will come from my own personality. I am not outgoing; my parents used to say that I just enjoyed my “down time,” which always unnerved me a little, a reminder that apparently I need extensive time alone just to function like a regular human being the rest of the time. Now, in college, it puts me in a weird position: I feel like I’m overbearing, too enthusiastic, taking myself too seriously when I’m one-on-one with my professors, while in front of my peers I am near-silent. It’s not a good combination. The constant change in dynamic is getting to my head. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-6-2016/3/
Keianna
My life has been full of researching and knowledge lately. I sometimes get random bursts of energy and want to learn as much as I can about a certain subject. My obsession with the subject will grow and grow until it’s all I talk about. In some cases it’s all I think about. I can feel the people around me getting annoyed with what I have to say. 
But when everything feels uncertain, research is nice because facts seldom change. I’m taking a physiology class at the moment, and it’s already my favorite part of the school day. There’s so much to learn about why people do what they do. The teacher is really cool. I hadn’t noticed that I don’t smile until he pointed it out. It’s nice knowing that someone’s paying attention. From my seat in the back of my class I watch everyone. Not in a creepy way but in a “why is it that you act why you do? I’m so curious kind of way.” 
I hope I can use my curiosity streak to my advantage and harness it to study. I know I need it. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-7-2016/3/
Thahabu
I found my mother’s license on Thursday. The mystery has been solved. She wasn’t 5-foot-1 or 5-foot-2, but 4-foot-11, just like me. I can see why people think I look like her, although I think she looks more like my older sister, just lighter. She had the awkward “this picture is going to be bad” look on her face. I felt less embarrassed about my ID picture.
These days, I’ve been getting out of bed and being productive as soon as I open my eyes. First I look at emails, then I do my whole hygiene thing, then I do yoga. I’m proud of myself because I’ve been doing my morning poses and stretches consistently every day. I occasionally bust a move to whatever I have playing on my stereo between poses. 
I moved into my dorm in Manhattan on Friday. It’s small but homey, and I chose a nice spot close to the window. I can’t complain. I’m not sure what roommate thinks of me. I was sleeping when she moved in so we met while I was donning a big T-shirt and my bonnet. It was pretty funny. I hope we won’t have any more incidents like that. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-8-2016/3/
Alyson
“Um no, we don’t develop film negatives anymore. Not many places do.”
Six, seven rolls of film, 24 exposures each. A small life’s worth of memories in an even smaller canister at the bottom of my bag. Memories that could have been blurred on my way through airport security until something lifted my head and I read the sign. I moved them into my luggage and out of danger. It looked like they would be staying in their little homes for a while longer. 
I felt bad about not delivering on the photos. Would people still post them, @ me, if I were to finally send them in a week or two? I liked having them rolled up tight and away from the light of the world where they would be continuously manipulated from then on. I am checking every day to see if my personal memory has been influenced yet. Everything is preparation for that one day that I wake up and wonder why I didn’t keep in touch with that one dude who was pretty douchey but now seemed sweet, after this time to marinate in my memory; why I would get depressed without remembering that I felt (and kinda was) completely alone much of the time; why hadn’t I gone to the Cloisters, and forgetting that it was because it was an area that I couldn’t go alone and no one cared about it as much as me to come. The day that I wake up and think that life only happens here, and eternity happens there. 
I’m not lazy. I’m not cheap (well, not in a relevant way). I have $20 in my wallet and don’t plan on salvaging it for anything “more important.” What could be more important than getting these negatives, after all this time?
I’m scared. Scared to let them out. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-9-2016/3/
Ananda
How do you know if what you’re doing is right, or if what someone else is doing is wrong, when you have no reference point?
This question is in reference to kissing. Because as much as there’s no wrong way to kiss someone…there really is.
I’ve had sudden, unknown tongues whirling around my mouth and first thought, Well, this just isn’t right, what on earth are you doing? A spring cleaning? And then thought, What if this weird tongue movement is the norm?! Maybe this is what all the kids are into these days.
As someone who has kissed guys and girls I am often asked which gender is better, a question that I don’t really answer. I was having this conversation with my bisexual friend and first kiss. We were comparing our girl-to-boy ratios: His was 7 to 4, and mine 5 to 2. We then debated whether or not we should include each other on the kiss list because the kiss we shared two years earlier was “hardly countable.” He told me that, in his experience, girls were better kissers than boys. I agreed, and then he kissed me—this time for more than a second, for many seconds in fact, like, a lot of seconds. When he pulled away he started nodding. It took him a while before he swallowed and said quietly, “Yep, girls, girls are definitely better.”
We’re counting that one. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-12-2016/3/
Alyson
Certain nights, I’ll go crazy over the fact that I can’t touch or be touched. I knew New York would be the last time. Everyone is so aware of time in the most wonderful way that they will tell you that you are beautiful without worrying about the repercussions, or even grab your hand. That is why I learned so much. 
The people in my town believe that it’s the city kind who think they will live forever in their apartments adorned in tapestries and succulents. But all I see here is a fearful cycle that they keep up because they tell each other that “you have time!” and “don’t worry about it,” as though life after high school is something that will arrive in their driveways one morning after coffee and the news.
To have is to own; I would say we are renters. 
I miss being touched, and I knew it would be the last time until I returned. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-13-2016/3/
Keianna
It feels like there’s nothing new in the world. Maybe it’s because I lack the know-how to break the mold, but imagining something never having been done before seems almost as impossible as imagining a new color. 
It’s almost laughable how much this seems to happen to me. I’ll be sitting around and suddenly have an idea that is AMAZING, revolutionary even, but a quick run through Google shows me that it’s been done or failed at once by someone else already. 
I’m in awe of my fellow humans: When I see people around me who are going right, somewhere else in the world they are going left, and somewhere even further away they are going in a circle. People have tried things that may have sounded absolutely ridiculous in their own time but are staples in today’s society. A good example of this is the airplane. The Wright brothers failed, they failed but they kept trying. You hear it time and time again. Harry Potter was rejected lots before becoming a household name. I read this morning that the show Stranger Things was rejected by 15–20 networks before being picked up by Netflix. I tend hear another one of these facts after every time I failed something.
It’s mind-boggling to me, because they didn’t know that eventually they would succeed. I wish I felt motivated to keep going every time I failed something, but, to be completely and utterly honest, I don’t. Sometimes I go into a situation ready to face whatever comes to me with an open mind, and then, after the speed bump, I decide it’s not worth it. I could blame that on my being a Taurus, but if I’m not sugar-coating things, it’s because I get lazy sometimes. Perhaps both are true. I’m still looking for that failure that turns into a success story; I have a feeling it’s going to take a lot of tears and hard work. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-14-2016/3/
Fatma
I started ninth grade a few days ago and although I was expecting a horrible day, it actually turned out OK. I was happy was because they made a new rule to allow the students to use their phones at break, so now I won’t have to hide in the toilet to listen to my music, anymore. However, the thing that got on my nerves was that the teachers kept repeating how important these next two years are and how everyone has to buckle down and concentrate. It felt like a lot of pressure and that I’ll have no room to get anything wrong. It made made me feel slightly closed in and frightened. The new principal and teachers remind me of villains in Jackie Chan films (the kind who are really sinister but who always hire other people to carry out their crimes). 
I’m feeling good about my classes, so far, however an incident occurred that was quite embarrassing. In one of my classes, a boy sitting opposite to me said to his friends, “Fatma has big cheeks but she’s not fat.” 
In return, I gave him and the people sitting around him a speech about how I’m confident in my own body and how there is nothing wrong with being fat, as long as your health is not at risk. When I had finished my lecture, everyone sat back in their seats, stunned, not expecting me to have responded. Some of them hadn’t even heard me speak until then. Then the boy said, “I can’t even understand what you’re saying,” to which I replied, “Can’t you understand English?” 
“No, I mean are you Shakespeare or something?” 
And I know he meant to say that so that people would laugh at me, which they did, but that’s actually a compliment in my book. It’s funny how people make fun of me at school but they don’t realize that they’re only making me stronger. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-15-2016/3/
Lilly
It’s not that I miss home in a way that pains me, it’s just a sense of being very, very alone. Really it should be inconsequential: I’m in a place I’ve been several times before anyway, a place that looks like where I grew up, a place that should by all means feel like a home of its own. Other people are coming from other states, other countries, beaches, mountains, places as unfamiliar to me as this one is to them. And yet I am the one lost, sequestering myself, finding the most self-recognition in self-isolation. I have more fun in astronomy class than trying to get to know people because my classes make me feel like I belong and everything else, contrary to what you’d expect, seems to set me apart. So I set myself apart, because then at least it’s voluntary.
It’s cold in the science building. That’s where I do my homework now, and it’s where most of my classes are, as well as the observatory perched at one of the highest points on campus. They don’t let first years up there on their own, but some nights the senior astronomy majors will open it up and let us squint through the eyepiece at Andromeda, or the Ring Nebula, or some globular cluster, the classification of which they argue over as the massive column turns its lens across the sky. I feel comfortable there, in the red light.
Maybe it’s better this way.
It is hard for me to open up, to ask for help. I am always afraid that even by talking about my day I’ll be monopolizing a conversation, not letting the other person get a word in edgewise—that I’ll be annoying, obnoxious, Why does she think we want to hear about this? But in some moments, when my texts to friends with actual questions or important information go unanswered, that fear turns to anger. I don’t deserve much, I think, but I deserve better. So I sit here in the cold science building as the sun ticks towards the horizon, a headache splitting both temples, not knowing whether I can go back to my room to get my physics textbook, because my roommate had a Skype session with her cello teacher this afternoon and she isn’t answering her phone. Back home, my parents are throwing our annual end-of-summer potluck and celebrating my father’s birthday, which is today, as I’m writing this. And it’s not that I miss home in a way that pains me, it’s just a sense of being very, very alone.
My parents will read this, and worry, and from afar I’ll do my best to tell them not to; being alone has never bothered me. I guess what bothers me is that the world condemns me for preferring my textbooks to campus events crammed with bodies, that the world tells me I’ll never get the real “college experience” if I’m not hungover in the bathroom on Saturday morning, that there must be something wrong with me if I’m not chomping at the bit when it comes to parties and and fooling around and neglecting my studies.
Not that there’s necessarily anything wrong with that. But maybe—I mean, have they considered that for me—maybe it’s better this way?
(Oh, and happy birthday, Dad.) ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-16-2016/3/
Thahabu
I was in a weird position last week. I was being slightly intimate with someone, but I was not comfortable. The person asked if they could touch my breasts, I quickly shoved their hands away, saying no. They then responded with some nonsense: “Oh, I didn’t know you were so insecure about your boobs,” assuming that was the reason I didn’t want them touching me. It couldn’t have been simply didn’t want them touching me in the first place, or that I don’t find them attractive. Nope, in their head they were the bees knees and anyone rejecting them was an inconceivable feat. 
This isn’t even the first time this has happened to me. People make me uncomfortable or do something to me that I don’t like and when I say “no” or “stop,” it is brushed off and laughed at, as if I don’t know what’s good for me. Apparently there are certain things that are universally liked, and if I don’t like them, somehow, something is wrong with me, and I’m the one who’s being uptight. I don’t know what’s up with people these days, but not respecting people’s space and comfort makes you the uptight one. Having respect for other people is so much fun, and you’re missing out, bro! 
So here’s a little PSA: If someone asks, no, tells you to stop doing something to them, don’t ask why. Don’t flatter yourself by thinking, “oh they must not be secure with themselves, that’s why they won’t let me do xyz to them.” You are not that cute, sorry to say, but everyone doesn’t want you. 
This kind of gaslighting and shaming shows up in my life in other ways, too. A few weeks ago, I was driving around with a friend talking about relationships. I explained how I’m not into actively seeking a relationship, I’m more into it just kind of happening. Like I begin a friendship with someone, and then later on it’s “ooooh romantic feelings are developing let’s try this out, bae.” So I’m turned off when someone suddenly decides that they wanna date me after an initial meeting; the person doesn’t know me yet. You can’t have someone figured out after just one interaction, so they don’t like me, they like the idea of me. We can hang out and then as they get to know me and then decide whether they actually like me or just liked the idea of me. We can proceed to dating or they can leave without accusing me of hiding things. After my spiel, my friend condescendingly said, “So do you think you’re afraid having emotions?” Like, what? I love to love people, and me and my emotions have a great relationship (thanks, therapy). I really don’t get why I’m somehow interpreted as cold or missing something when I say I have no real interest in having a partner. 
I will admit that maybe this lack of interest comes from a dating blip I had last year, when the person acted like I was shoving stakes through their hands every time they noticed that I took interest in things they didn’t like, or had qualities that didn’t mesh with theirs. Me not being who they’d made me out to be in their head was somehow heartbreaking for them, but really strange and torturous for me. If you don’t like major parts of someone’s personality don’t stay and criticize every little thing the person does. Leave so they can go on being them and pursue a relationship with someone who appreciates the parts of them you despised. But cold? Scared of love? Nah, I’m hella warm and inviting. That’s why I’ve only been at my new college for a week, yet people keep asking to eat with me in the cafeteria.
I’m good. I know myself. Imma keep doing me. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-19-2016/3/
Alyson
I did the thing where I wrote you a poem, but couldn’t detach myself enough to make it good. Good for me, getting in the way. So I did the thing where I wrote you a poem and made it look like notes in a binder that doesn’t open after school. 
The Google doc title would be “for you,” the scraps that I couldn’t smooth together with shaking hands announced with Roman numerals. How romantic of me. 
I don’t know if you would understand it. I don’t know if you would fake it. It’s the effort that I am certain you would exert while trying that counts. 
Maybe my next poem will be on your arm. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-20-2016/3/
Thahabu
Part One
I feel like a gutted fish
Organs hanging
Blood everywhere
I don’t know what made me stab myself
What made me carve and tear my insides apart
You?
You love the ugliest parts of me with tenderness.
Part Two
Circles run deep under my eyes
Just like the feelings I had for you
Tears ran down my cheeks
In fact they sped
It was a race to see how much I could cry until I drowned.
Part Three
Talking to you was like going to another country. I hated that country. It tried to rip me of my customs and sacred tribal markings. I barely made it out with my birth name intact. I won’t be coming back. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-21-2016/3/
Keianna
The way I’m living right now is very day-to-day. There’s a hazy OK-ness to my everyday activities. Every school day brings a different song to mind and every class brings a different mood. Usually, this inconsistency would bother me beyond words, but I’ve filed this experience in my mind under self-help. I can’t keep living my life the same way and expecting the changes I want to arrive without my doing anything. While procrastinating one day, I realized that change is inevitable, but with careful planning I can use it to my advantage.
I’m making this sound very deep but in reality this shift in my perspective came to me as an approachable friend. Two extremes made themselves relevant to my life by becoming evident in two friends. One of these extremes came in the form of someone I consider a lifelong friend, someone I don’t want to lose. I can tell the other person has been placed into my life temporarily so that I can “level up” as a person.
My best friend is the reason I believe people are sent to you for a reason. We met in the most clichéd way, but I wouldn’t be the person I am if I didn’t know her. She is my first choice and second opinion if I need one. The only reason I think things through without sabotaging myself is because she taught me how to. I think we’d be kinda lost without each other. There’s less to say about the other extreme, but they’re a nice reminder not to worry so much. 
In my writing class we are learning that every piece of writing has a long build up to a short climax and an even shorter clean up. This makes sense now that I’m writing this, because all that figurative language has led me to a nice, clean summary of my life right now.
The two extremes in my life have lead me to what feels like an almost perfect balance and feeling of OK-ness. I’m really grateful for them. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-22-2016/3/
Lilly
This evening I go into panic mode as I try to catch up and do my share of this group lab report, and correct my physics and astronomy homework to turn in tomorrow, and print out an assignment for linear algebra that’s been weighing on me and my partners for more than a week now, and all of this with three hours to go until midnight. But, you know what? It was worth it. It was worth it for the inside jokes, and the bad puns, and hearing my geology professor swear like a sailor when he missed our exit. It was worth it for being the fastest group to set up our tent (and break it down the next morning). It was worth it, and I decided that when I stood alone on the lakeside, the first one to brave the breath-clouding chill of the air, watching the morning mist roll across the water and thinking, Whatever lies ahead, I’m glad I came.
Because it’s easy to feel like a part of something when the peppers and onions are already sizzling in butter in the skillet, and someone’s job is literally to hold up a pair of flashlights over the stove because the moon isn’t high enough yet to light our way, and later we all sit around the campfire botching jokes until we all retire to our separate tents to curl up on our sleeping mats and play cards. This morning, drinking instant hot chocolate and watching my geology lab professor beat a cooking pot like a drum to rouse my still-sleeping classmates, I finally felt at home. The only other place I’ve gotten that feeling since coming to college is at the observatory, when the lights turn red and the dome creaks ominously as it spins and the massive metal column in the center turns, adjusts, precise and seemingly all-knowing.
I have a lot to catch up on now, and I doubt I’ve endeared myself much to my physics lab group, but I keep telling myself: it was worth it. I still believe it. It’s hard to not like your geology professor a little more when you’ve seen him belt out Grimes lyrics like the best of them. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-23-2016/3/
Kiana
Friday night: I tried to paint my nails crimson red, because I wanted to have the courage to write beautifully about an incident that happened earlier in the week—a memory I’ll always hold in the palm of my hands, dearly.
Earlier in the week: I woke up with the usual life-hate grogginess. I remained slumped on my white, filthy mattress and reached overhead to touch the surface of my mosquito net. Reality abruptly slammed itself into me: I remembered that I am in possession of a phone. I checked it, hoping to have received no texts from anyone. To my dismay, someone—a classmate in two of my classes and on whom I unfortunately have a crush—had texted me. I bolted upright and shrieked. I wanted to tweet about it RIGHT AWAY, because I have zero self-control, but a certain life force (maybe the Goddess?) pulled me from it. S/O to the Goddess—feminism lives on.
I was floored. It felt like the universe was building me a time machine, not for changing past life events but for feeling certain teenage feelings. Feelings that everyone, in one way or another, should feel at least maybe thrice (???) in their lifetime. I can’t remember, honestly, the last time I was in Crush Cloud Nine. So maybe that was my Crush Cloud Nine moment—a sugar rush of pretty, pastel-hued feelings, which my “adult” mind tried to rationalize and dissect after I got off my unicorn-drawn chariot from Crush Cloud Nine Nation. I was petty, and I loved it.
Where did my youth go?
Monday: Now I’m also always crying, sometimes with a reason but mostly for no reason at all. I feel sad about everything, even the pale early morning light I marvelled at as I was going home from studying out in a crappy coffee shop. I asked a friend to take a photo of me standing pensive under the yellow streetlights with the pale blue early morning sky behind and above me. I got some hash browns and a hot chocolate for my grandmother. I tucked myself into my fresh lavender mattress and fell asleep sighing.
I guess I’ll end this here. I didn’t know how to start writing this, because I thought that not writing about it beautifully would sort of crack this purple, hazy, magical illusion/image I have in my mind. Whatever, I guess, because now I hold the memory. It satiates me. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-26-2016/3/
Keianna
Whose idea was it to have all three high schools in my district come together to do a play anyways? I’m trying to stay calm but in all honesty, I’m bitter. OK, let me try to be fair here. They most definitely didn’t have me on their mind when they made this decision, in other words, this wasn’t a personal attack on me. 
How could I let myself forget that this wasn’t a normal Saturday? I saw the fliers all over school. I knew that while I was doing Saturday School to clear an absence all the theatre hopefuls would be auditioning for the play. I should have dressed up. I should have got up early and done my makeup. I should have remembered.
Life must have been playing a sick joke on me. It’s the worst kind of coincidence that I was wearing my worst outfit while walking straight into a group of the people who, during middle school, weren’t afraid to let me know how unwanted I was. I’ve forgiven them. I promise I have, but seeing them again brought back the sick, anxious feeling in my stomach. For the most part they ignored me, but there was eye contact and acknowledgment that they remembered me. 
The memories I tried so hard to repress came flooding back—science class in particular. I don’t know why that teacher tried his best to ignore the fact that they were mean to me. He saw them rip up my work. He watched them break my things and call me names. 
In the moment, I wanted to go back and explain to them that, No no no, this is not me. I totally progressed and grown since the time that I knew them. I’m cool now, guys. I’ve stepped away from the situation long enough now to realize that I don’t need to prove myself to them—or to anyone. I’m in love with myself, despite my occasional bouts of self doubt. 
I’ve forgiven everyone who bullied me, but there’s no way I’m going to see that play. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-27-2016/3/
Alyson
I am dying here. If I was speaking to a stranger, I would say “decomposing.” “Dying” still breaks the flatlining expectation of simple goodness in the minds of people here, even though these are the same thing. 
I wasn’t crying wolf, last year, when I wanted to go away to another school, but mostly another place. I didn’t know that junior year here would have been OK. I feel as though I woke up as the wolf one day, and that makes it hard to stick around when no one wants to understand you. 
I don’t learn. I tire myself wringing out every person I know for something new. At least I have muscles. 
These are my days, and it is a surgery to have them removed from my control. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-28-2016/3/
Cammy
I’ve been reading this book called A New Earth: Awakening to Your Life’s Purpose by Eckhart Tolle, for the past month or so. It’s a spiritual-type, self-help book, but not in the way of following any specific religion. It’s really vague about the “Awakening” which is the absolute goal or a state of being or something. 
A lot of what this book talks about is dismantling ALL social constructs, down to the alphabet and words and basic things like that. Tolle says that social constructs create our egos, and our egos are these thriving, living, evil things that take away from who you are, and hide your innermost self—the part of your that can feel the interconnectedness of all life forms. Tolle says that people learn from an early age that the 26 letters of the English alphabet, when mixed up and arranged to form words, can define who you are. But, he argues, that isn’t true, because you’re just defining your ego. 
Another thing with the ego is that angry feelings and bitterness come from there, not from within. Since understanding that me getting mad or yelling is just my ego trying to keep me from the interconnectedness I have within, I have become a lot less confrontational. It really helps me to pick my battles. I’m still learning how to keep those feelings in check, but it really helps to apply this thinking when dealing with other people. Sometimes my dad says some of the most utterly stupid things to me, and as mad as I could be, I just have to understand that he doesn’t get it. Or, not that he doesn’t get it, but that his ego has been conditioned by the social constructs in our society to think that it’s OK to say things like that to me. 
After reading fewer than one hundred pages of this book, I feel as though I have a better understanding of the people around me, which doesn’t make me happier. I see people so disconnected from who they really are, attaching their identities to opinions, and holding people accountable for things they can’t help or don’t understand, and it’s made me really frustrated. I’ve had two or three big cries this month, just because it feels like people don’t care about each other. 
Even the concept of right and wrong, or obtaining knowledge, forces you to choose a stance on something, and it’s created by fostering otherness between you and other people. That’s the ego. I am letting go of these ideas as much as I can. I’m learning to forgive people for things they can’t help, instead of holding grudges. I think the most important thing is to just take a step back and look at everything for what it really is. Everyone deserves a happy life, and it’s not gonna happen all at once, but the fact that I am reading this book and learning about how to be better is one more person being more in tune with what life has to offer. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-29-2016/3/
Fatma
Isn’t it weird that such horrible things go on in this world, yet some of us are immune to it? A 13 year old, African-American boy named Tyre King was shot by police for having a BB gun, which the police apparently thought was a real gun. When I found out about this, I immediately started crying and thinking, Is humanity not humane? Doesn’t anyone want to try and fix the obviously racist justice system. Shouldn’t someone in power make an effort to fix this problem? Why is no powerful figure changing things, to the point where Black people have to try and do it themselves? When I ask these questions, I’m definitely not overlooking Black Lives Matter activists; I think they’re really brave and are the voice for a lot of Black people who can’t protest. But as a child, I thought that there was right and wrong and that if something was wrong, someone would make it right. As I’ve matured slightly, I’ve realised that, sadly, this isn’t true. 
This ongoing injustice is why cultural appropriation really upsets me. For example, Kendall Jenner, and other models who were representing Marc Jacobs, recently wore colorful dreadlocks. Didn’t these white people feel bad taking features from Black people without ever having to face the problems that come along with being a Black person? Kendall Jenner doesn’t know how it feels to be scared to drive with a group of friends, just in case the police pulls them over. 
I hope people become more conscious. I know that I have to be, in order to survive in this confusing world. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-30-2016/3/
Fatma
I’m currently listening to a 7-inch John Travolta vinyl and crying in my room for no reason. I feel so confused, as if I’m not living up to the ideals of teenage life. I always feel like I have no more hope for mankind or for myself, but I’m so cynical that I almost find myself funny. I’m thinking the thoughts of a 40-year-old going through a midlife crisis. I’m like a character from a Woody Allen film. I spend my time watching films, wishing I lived in them. I try to be positive, but everything ends up the same. I don’t think there’s another 14-year-old who has the same constant thoughts about mortality and society as I do. When I look around, the people at my school are talking about shopping and the TV shows that they watched the night before. I’m sit alone thinking about fate or what infinity looks like. I’m basically Danny Pudi’s character in the show Community. But I’m more than a character. I’m a real life person. I honestly need to relax and, put in the simplest of terms, I have to stop thinking so much. 
On a separate note, I had a super weird dream in which a boy from school kissed me. And although I’ve never kissed anyone, it felt so real. I woke up feeling so weird and kind of disgusted with myself. I can’t even be relaxed in my dreams. 
I have so many emotions, going in different directions, at full speed. I’ll have to make a traffic light system for my feelings so that I don’t mentally crash and burn. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-1-2016/3/
Alyson
Like the flip of a coin, I will decide that I am worse than the boys. Sometimes. Worrying whenever I think about them that I could be just one girl in a pool of many in which they immerse themselves for entertainment. Worrying about myself. Myself.
How can I worry about them when I am the one digging pools to fill full of boys? Boys who may be/are definitely interested. Just to have them there. To pretend that they are simply good to look at when really…It raises the equity on the house, a pool does.
I don’t like myself for doing it, but it seems nearly survivalist when considering my underdeveloped personal constitution regarding boys and what to do with them. This is my Versailles; I’m sure they can appreciate being the single-minded court officials who were only after superficial things anyways. Or was that Louis XIV? Thinking that was all he could have wanted until his head hit the floor? ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-2-2016/3/
Fatma
My two week trip to Northern Cyprus was probably one of the most eye-opening experiences I’ve ever had, although I’ve been out there to visit family a handful of times. Then, I was less observant and I didn’t really have the same thoughts that I have now. I’m happy that I took my Moleskine and saved the memories that are making me miss Northern Cyprus now that I’m back home.
At one point during my trip, I wrote, “I felt kind of emotional, sitting on the balcony with everyone, as the sun went down. I finally felt like I wasn’t a foreigner. I felt like I finally belonged somewhere.” Those words really encapsulate how I felt. The English tourists who were visiting Northern Cyprus had the trouble of not knowing the language that everyone else was speaking, for once, English people felt how scary that feels. It’s a feeling that nearly all of my older family members had to deal with that when they moved to England in the ’80s. My whole life, I’ve been labeled a foreigner and as someone who doesn’t belong—that along with the troubles of being a Muslim. For example, the people in the airport checked me, because of my name. Who would’ve thought that I’m a human being and not a pet or a monster?
I also read a lot of The Autobiography of Malcolm X. It made me think about discrimination and the effect it has on young people. In one part, Malcolm X writes something about how white people pretend as if they’re opening the door to Black people, but they don’t actually open it; they don’t really see Black people. This really made me think about how minorities—but especially Black people—are looked at as aliens who don’t have feelings. Minorities have to work hard for weeks to get something that the people oppressing us can get in a day. 
My trip also got me thinking about village life and how, although I wasn’t brought up in a village, its principles are naturally instilled in me. This is when I wrote, “There is never a moment in the village when I feel hungry or lonely or empty inside. I never feel cold and neither does my heart. Village life is and always will be saved in my heart. The village is a part of my blood. It’s who I am. It will always be a part of me.” These feelings remind me that, through my dad and cousins who were born and live in Kaleburnu, the village that I’m from, I become a puzzle piece that fits in perfectly. The fact that I didn’t grow up there didn’t matter, it still felt like my home.
Now that I’m back, I feel complete. Northern Cyprus is my medicine—with it, I feel as though I can do anything. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-5-2016/3/
Lilly
I’m getting lost again. I’m halfway up a rock face, fumbling for a stronger grip. I’m done with my homework for the next week but so tired that I fall asleep at my desk the moment the pressure is off. I’m neglecting the rare few friends I’ve made here, and you’d think that they would be something to hold onto, but the relationships are too new, they haven’t fledged yet. I look up my school’s counseling services but my insurance policy is too long to read and I am too weary and I tell myself, I’ll do it tomorrow. I’ll feel better after I sleep anyway.
Sometimes I think that in the end my downfall will come from my own personality. I am not outgoing; my parents used to say that I just enjoyed my “down time,” which always unnerved me a little, a reminder that apparently I need extensive time alone just to function like a regular human being the rest of the time. Now, in college, it puts me in a weird position: I feel like I’m overbearing, too enthusiastic, taking myself too seriously when I’m one-on-one with my professors, while in front of my peers I am near-silent. It’s not a good combination. The constant change in dynamic is getting to my head. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-6-2016/3/
Keianna
My life has been full of researching and knowledge lately. I sometimes get random bursts of energy and want to learn as much as I can about a certain subject. My obsession with the subject will grow and grow until it’s all I talk about. In some cases it’s all I think about. I can feel the people around me getting annoyed with what I have to say. 
But when everything feels uncertain, research is nice because facts seldom change. I’m taking a physiology class at the moment, and it’s already my favorite part of the school day. There’s so much to learn about why people do what they do. The teacher is really cool. I hadn’t noticed that I don’t smile until he pointed it out. It’s nice knowing that someone’s paying attention. From my seat in the back of my class I watch everyone. Not in a creepy way but in a “why is it that you act why you do? I’m so curious kind of way.” 
I hope I can use my curiosity streak to my advantage and harness it to study. I know I need it. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-7-2016/3/
Thahabu
I found my mother’s license on Thursday. The mystery has been solved. She wasn’t 5-foot-1 or 5-foot-2, but 4-foot-11, just like me. I can see why people think I look like her, although I think she looks more like my older sister, just lighter. She had the awkward “this picture is going to be bad” look on her face. I felt less embarrassed about my ID picture.
These days, I’ve been getting out of bed and being productive as soon as I open my eyes. First I look at emails, then I do my whole hygiene thing, then I do yoga. I’m proud of myself because I’ve been doing my morning poses and stretches consistently every day. I occasionally bust a move to whatever I have playing on my stereo between poses. 
I moved into my dorm in Manhattan on Friday. It’s small but homey, and I chose a nice spot close to the window. I can’t complain. I’m not sure what roommate thinks of me. I was sleeping when she moved in so we met while I was donning a big T-shirt and my bonnet. It was pretty funny. I hope we won’t have any more incidents like that. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-8-2016/3/
Alyson
“Um no, we don’t develop film negatives anymore. Not many places do.”
Six, seven rolls of film, 24 exposures each. A small life’s worth of memories in an even smaller canister at the bottom of my bag. Memories that could have been blurred on my way through airport security until something lifted my head and I read the sign. I moved them into my luggage and out of danger. It looked like they would be staying in their little homes for a while longer. 
I felt bad about not delivering on the photos. Would people still post them, @ me, if I were to finally send them in a week or two? I liked having them rolled up tight and away from the light of the world where they would be continuously manipulated from then on. I am checking every day to see if my personal memory has been influenced yet. Everything is preparation for that one day that I wake up and wonder why I didn’t keep in touch with that one dude who was pretty douchey but now seemed sweet, after this time to marinate in my memory; why I would get depressed without remembering that I felt (and kinda was) completely alone much of the time; why hadn’t I gone to the Cloisters, and forgetting that it was because it was an area that I couldn’t go alone and no one cared about it as much as me to come. The day that I wake up and think that life only happens here, and eternity happens there. 
I’m not lazy. I’m not cheap (well, not in a relevant way). I have $20 in my wallet and don’t plan on salvaging it for anything “more important.” What could be more important than getting these negatives, after all this time?
I’m scared. Scared to let them out. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-9-2016/3/
Ananda
How do you know if what you’re doing is right, or if what someone else is doing is wrong, when you have no reference point?
This question is in reference to kissing. Because as much as there’s no wrong way to kiss someone…there really is.
I’ve had sudden, unknown tongues whirling around my mouth and first thought, Well, this just isn’t right, what on earth are you doing? A spring cleaning? And then thought, What if this weird tongue movement is the norm?! Maybe this is what all the kids are into these days.
As someone who has kissed guys and girls I am often asked which gender is better, a question that I don’t really answer. I was having this conversation with my bisexual friend and first kiss. We were comparing our girl-to-boy ratios: His was 7 to 4, and mine 5 to 2. We then debated whether or not we should include each other on the kiss list because the kiss we shared two years earlier was “hardly countable.” He told me that, in his experience, girls were better kissers than boys. I agreed, and then he kissed me—this time for more than a second, for many seconds in fact, like, a lot of seconds. When he pulled away he started nodding. It took him a while before he swallowed and said quietly, “Yep, girls, girls are definitely better.”
We’re counting that one. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-12-2016/3/
Alyson
Certain nights, I’ll go crazy over the fact that I can’t touch or be touched. I knew New York would be the last time. Everyone is so aware of time in the most wonderful way that they will tell you that you are beautiful without worrying about the repercussions, or even grab your hand. That is why I learned so much. 
The people in my town believe that it’s the city kind who think they will live forever in their apartments adorned in tapestries and succulents. But all I see here is a fearful cycle that they keep up because they tell each other that “you have time!” and “don’t worry about it,” as though life after high school is something that will arrive in their driveways one morning after coffee and the news.
To have is to own; I would say we are renters. 
I miss being touched, and I knew it would be the last time until I returned. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-13-2016/3/
Keianna
It feels like there’s nothing new in the world. Maybe it’s because I lack the know-how to break the mold, but imagining something never having been done before seems almost as impossible as imagining a new color. 
It’s almost laughable how much this seems to happen to me. I’ll be sitting around and suddenly have an idea that is AMAZING, revolutionary even, but a quick run through Google shows me that it’s been done or failed at once by someone else already. 
I’m in awe of my fellow humans: When I see people around me who are going right, somewhere else in the world they are going left, and somewhere even further away they are going in a circle. People have tried things that may have sounded absolutely ridiculous in their own time but are staples in today’s society. A good example of this is the airplane. The Wright brothers failed, they failed but they kept trying. You hear it time and time again. Harry Potter was rejected lots before becoming a household name. I read this morning that the show Stranger Things was rejected by 15–20 networks before being picked up by Netflix. I tend hear another one of these facts after every time I failed something.
It’s mind-boggling to me, because they didn’t know that eventually they would succeed. I wish I felt motivated to keep going every time I failed something, but, to be completely and utterly honest, I don’t. Sometimes I go into a situation ready to face whatever comes to me with an open mind, and then, after the speed bump, I decide it’s not worth it. I could blame that on my being a Taurus, but if I’m not sugar-coating things, it’s because I get lazy sometimes. Perhaps both are true. I’m still looking for that failure that turns into a success story; I have a feeling it’s going to take a lot of tears and hard work. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-14-2016/3/
Fatma
I started ninth grade a few days ago and although I was expecting a horrible day, it actually turned out OK. I was happy was because they made a new rule to allow the students to use their phones at break, so now I won’t have to hide in the toilet to listen to my music, anymore. However, the thing that got on my nerves was that the teachers kept repeating how important these next two years are and how everyone has to buckle down and concentrate. It felt like a lot of pressure and that I’ll have no room to get anything wrong. It made made me feel slightly closed in and frightened. The new principal and teachers remind me of villains in Jackie Chan films (the kind who are really sinister but who always hire other people to carry out their crimes). 
I’m feeling good about my classes, so far, however an incident occurred that was quite embarrassing. In one of my classes, a boy sitting opposite to me said to his friends, “Fatma has big cheeks but she’s not fat.” 
In return, I gave him and the people sitting around him a speech about how I’m confident in my own body and how there is nothing wrong with being fat, as long as your health is not at risk. When I had finished my lecture, everyone sat back in their seats, stunned, not expecting me to have responded. Some of them hadn’t even heard me speak until then. Then the boy said, “I can’t even understand what you’re saying,” to which I replied, “Can’t you understand English?” 
“No, I mean are you Shakespeare or something?” 
And I know he meant to say that so that people would laugh at me, which they did, but that’s actually a compliment in my book. It’s funny how people make fun of me at school but they don’t realize that they’re only making me stronger. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-15-2016/3/
Lilly
It’s not that I miss home in a way that pains me, it’s just a sense of being very, very alone. Really it should be inconsequential: I’m in a place I’ve been several times before anyway, a place that looks like where I grew up, a place that should by all means feel like a home of its own. Other people are coming from other states, other countries, beaches, mountains, places as unfamiliar to me as this one is to them. And yet I am the one lost, sequestering myself, finding the most self-recognition in self-isolation. I have more fun in astronomy class than trying to get to know people because my classes make me feel like I belong and everything else, contrary to what you’d expect, seems to set me apart. So I set myself apart, because then at least it’s voluntary.
It’s cold in the science building. That’s where I do my homework now, and it’s where most of my classes are, as well as the observatory perched at one of the highest points on campus. They don’t let first years up there on their own, but some nights the senior astronomy majors will open it up and let us squint through the eyepiece at Andromeda, or the Ring Nebula, or some globular cluster, the classification of which they argue over as the massive column turns its lens across the sky. I feel comfortable there, in the red light.
Maybe it’s better this way.
It is hard for me to open up, to ask for help. I am always afraid that even by talking about my day I’ll be monopolizing a conversation, not letting the other person get a word in edgewise—that I’ll be annoying, obnoxious, Why does she think we want to hear about this? But in some moments, when my texts to friends with actual questions or important information go unanswered, that fear turns to anger. I don’t deserve much, I think, but I deserve better. So I sit here in the cold science building as the sun ticks towards the horizon, a headache splitting both temples, not knowing whether I can go back to my room to get my physics textbook, because my roommate had a Skype session with her cello teacher this afternoon and she isn’t answering her phone. Back home, my parents are throwing our annual end-of-summer potluck and celebrating my father’s birthday, which is today, as I’m writing this. And it’s not that I miss home in a way that pains me, it’s just a sense of being very, very alone.
My parents will read this, and worry, and from afar I’ll do my best to tell them not to; being alone has never bothered me. I guess what bothers me is that the world condemns me for preferring my textbooks to campus events crammed with bodies, that the world tells me I’ll never get the real “college experience” if I’m not hungover in the bathroom on Saturday morning, that there must be something wrong with me if I’m not chomping at the bit when it comes to parties and and fooling around and neglecting my studies.
Not that there’s necessarily anything wrong with that. But maybe—I mean, have they considered that for me—maybe it’s better this way?
(Oh, and happy birthday, Dad.) ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-16-2016/3/
Thahabu
I was in a weird position last week. I was being slightly intimate with someone, but I was not comfortable. The person asked if they could touch my breasts, I quickly shoved their hands away, saying no. They then responded with some nonsense: “Oh, I didn’t know you were so insecure about your boobs,” assuming that was the reason I didn’t want them touching me. It couldn’t have been simply didn’t want them touching me in the first place, or that I don’t find them attractive. Nope, in their head they were the bees knees and anyone rejecting them was an inconceivable feat. 
This isn’t even the first time this has happened to me. People make me uncomfortable or do something to me that I don’t like and when I say “no” or “stop,” it is brushed off and laughed at, as if I don’t know what’s good for me. Apparently there are certain things that are universally liked, and if I don’t like them, somehow, something is wrong with me, and I’m the one who’s being uptight. I don’t know what’s up with people these days, but not respecting people’s space and comfort makes you the uptight one. Having respect for other people is so much fun, and you’re missing out, bro! 
So here’s a little PSA: If someone asks, no, tells you to stop doing something to them, don’t ask why. Don’t flatter yourself by thinking, “oh they must not be secure with themselves, that’s why they won’t let me do xyz to them.” You are not that cute, sorry to say, but everyone doesn’t want you. 
This kind of gaslighting and shaming shows up in my life in other ways, too. A few weeks ago, I was driving around with a friend talking about relationships. I explained how I’m not into actively seeking a relationship, I’m more into it just kind of happening. Like I begin a friendship with someone, and then later on it’s “ooooh romantic feelings are developing let’s try this out, bae.” So I’m turned off when someone suddenly decides that they wanna date me after an initial meeting; the person doesn’t know me yet. You can’t have someone figured out after just one interaction, so they don’t like me, they like the idea of me. We can hang out and then as they get to know me and then decide whether they actually like me or just liked the idea of me. We can proceed to dating or they can leave without accusing me of hiding things. After my spiel, my friend condescendingly said, “So do you think you’re afraid having emotions?” Like, what? I love to love people, and me and my emotions have a great relationship (thanks, therapy). I really don’t get why I’m somehow interpreted as cold or missing something when I say I have no real interest in having a partner. 
I will admit that maybe this lack of interest comes from a dating blip I had last year, when the person acted like I was shoving stakes through their hands every time they noticed that I took interest in things they didn’t like, or had qualities that didn’t mesh with theirs. Me not being who they’d made me out to be in their head was somehow heartbreaking for them, but really strange and torturous for me. If you don’t like major parts of someone’s personality don’t stay and criticize every little thing the person does. Leave so they can go on being them and pursue a relationship with someone who appreciates the parts of them you despised. But cold? Scared of love? Nah, I’m hella warm and inviting. That’s why I’ve only been at my new college for a week, yet people keep asking to eat with me in the cafeteria.
I’m good. I know myself. Imma keep doing me. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-19-2016/3/
Alyson
I did the thing where I wrote you a poem, but couldn’t detach myself enough to make it good. Good for me, getting in the way. So I did the thing where I wrote you a poem and made it look like notes in a binder that doesn’t open after school. 
The Google doc title would be “for you,” the scraps that I couldn’t smooth together with shaking hands announced with Roman numerals. How romantic of me. 
I don’t know if you would understand it. I don’t know if you would fake it. It’s the effort that I am certain you would exert while trying that counts. 
Maybe my next poem will be on your arm. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-20-2016/3/
Thahabu
Part One
I feel like a gutted fish
Organs hanging
Blood everywhere
I don’t know what made me stab myself
What made me carve and tear my insides apart
You?
You love the ugliest parts of me with tenderness.
Part Two
Circles run deep under my eyes
Just like the feelings I had for you
Tears ran down my cheeks
In fact they sped
It was a race to see how much I could cry until I drowned.
Part Three
Talking to you was like going to another country. I hated that country. It tried to rip me of my customs and sacred tribal markings. I barely made it out with my birth name intact. I won’t be coming back. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-21-2016/3/
Keianna
The way I’m living right now is very day-to-day. There’s a hazy OK-ness to my everyday activities. Every school day brings a different song to mind and every class brings a different mood. Usually, this inconsistency would bother me beyond words, but I’ve filed this experience in my mind under self-help. I can’t keep living my life the same way and expecting the changes I want to arrive without my doing anything. While procrastinating one day, I realized that change is inevitable, but with careful planning I can use it to my advantage.
I’m making this sound very deep but in reality this shift in my perspective came to me as an approachable friend. Two extremes made themselves relevant to my life by becoming evident in two friends. One of these extremes came in the form of someone I consider a lifelong friend, someone I don’t want to lose. I can tell the other person has been placed into my life temporarily so that I can “level up” as a person.
My best friend is the reason I believe people are sent to you for a reason. We met in the most clichéd way, but I wouldn’t be the person I am if I didn’t know her. She is my first choice and second opinion if I need one. The only reason I think things through without sabotaging myself is because she taught me how to. I think we’d be kinda lost without each other. There’s less to say about the other extreme, but they’re a nice reminder not to worry so much. 
In my writing class we are learning that every piece of writing has a long build up to a short climax and an even shorter clean up. This makes sense now that I’m writing this, because all that figurative language has led me to a nice, clean summary of my life right now.
The two extremes in my life have lead me to what feels like an almost perfect balance and feeling of OK-ness. I’m really grateful for them. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-22-2016/3/
Lilly
This evening I go into panic mode as I try to catch up and do my share of this group lab report, and correct my physics and astronomy homework to turn in tomorrow, and print out an assignment for linear algebra that’s been weighing on me and my partners for more than a week now, and all of this with three hours to go until midnight. But, you know what? It was worth it. It was worth it for the inside jokes, and the bad puns, and hearing my geology professor swear like a sailor when he missed our exit. It was worth it for being the fastest group to set up our tent (and break it down the next morning). It was worth it, and I decided that when I stood alone on the lakeside, the first one to brave the breath-clouding chill of the air, watching the morning mist roll across the water and thinking, Whatever lies ahead, I’m glad I came.
Because it’s easy to feel like a part of something when the peppers and onions are already sizzling in butter in the skillet, and someone’s job is literally to hold up a pair of flashlights over the stove because the moon isn’t high enough yet to light our way, and later we all sit around the campfire botching jokes until we all retire to our separate tents to curl up on our sleeping mats and play cards. This morning, drinking instant hot chocolate and watching my geology lab professor beat a cooking pot like a drum to rouse my still-sleeping classmates, I finally felt at home. The only other place I’ve gotten that feeling since coming to college is at the observatory, when the lights turn red and the dome creaks ominously as it spins and the massive metal column in the center turns, adjusts, precise and seemingly all-knowing.
I have a lot to catch up on now, and I doubt I’ve endeared myself much to my physics lab group, but I keep telling myself: it was worth it. I still believe it. It’s hard to not like your geology professor a little more when you’ve seen him belt out Grimes lyrics like the best of them. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-23-2016/3/
Kiana
Friday night: I tried to paint my nails crimson red, because I wanted to have the courage to write beautifully about an incident that happened earlier in the week—a memory I’ll always hold in the palm of my hands, dearly.
Earlier in the week: I woke up with the usual life-hate grogginess. I remained slumped on my white, filthy mattress and reached overhead to touch the surface of my mosquito net. Reality abruptly slammed itself into me: I remembered that I am in possession of a phone. I checked it, hoping to have received no texts from anyone. To my dismay, someone—a classmate in two of my classes and on whom I unfortunately have a crush—had texted me. I bolted upright and shrieked. I wanted to tweet about it RIGHT AWAY, because I have zero self-control, but a certain life force (maybe the Goddess?) pulled me from it. S/O to the Goddess—feminism lives on.
I was floored. It felt like the universe was building me a time machine, not for changing past life events but for feeling certain teenage feelings. Feelings that everyone, in one way or another, should feel at least maybe thrice (???) in their lifetime. I can’t remember, honestly, the last time I was in Crush Cloud Nine. So maybe that was my Crush Cloud Nine moment—a sugar rush of pretty, pastel-hued feelings, which my “adult” mind tried to rationalize and dissect after I got off my unicorn-drawn chariot from Crush Cloud Nine Nation. I was petty, and I loved it.
Where did my youth go?
Monday: Now I’m also always crying, sometimes with a reason but mostly for no reason at all. I feel sad about everything, even the pale early morning light I marvelled at as I was going home from studying out in a crappy coffee shop. I asked a friend to take a photo of me standing pensive under the yellow streetlights with the pale blue early morning sky behind and above me. I got some hash browns and a hot chocolate for my grandmother. I tucked myself into my fresh lavender mattress and fell asleep sighing.
I guess I’ll end this here. I didn’t know how to start writing this, because I thought that not writing about it beautifully would sort of crack this purple, hazy, magical illusion/image I have in my mind. Whatever, I guess, because now I hold the memory. It satiates me. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-26-2016/3/
Keianna
Whose idea was it to have all three high schools in my district come together to do a play anyways? I’m trying to stay calm but in all honesty, I’m bitter. OK, let me try to be fair here. They most definitely didn’t have me on their mind when they made this decision, in other words, this wasn’t a personal attack on me. 
How could I let myself forget that this wasn’t a normal Saturday? I saw the fliers all over school. I knew that while I was doing Saturday School to clear an absence all the theatre hopefuls would be auditioning for the play. I should have dressed up. I should have got up early and done my makeup. I should have remembered.
Life must have been playing a sick joke on me. It’s the worst kind of coincidence that I was wearing my worst outfit while walking straight into a group of the people who, during middle school, weren’t afraid to let me know how unwanted I was. I’ve forgiven them. I promise I have, but seeing them again brought back the sick, anxious feeling in my stomach. For the most part they ignored me, but there was eye contact and acknowledgment that they remembered me. 
The memories I tried so hard to repress came flooding back—science class in particular. I don’t know why that teacher tried his best to ignore the fact that they were mean to me. He saw them rip up my work. He watched them break my things and call me names. 
In the moment, I wanted to go back and explain to them that, No no no, this is not me. I totally progressed and grown since the time that I knew them. I’m cool now, guys. I’ve stepped away from the situation long enough now to realize that I don’t need to prove myself to them—or to anyone. I’m in love with myself, despite my occasional bouts of self doubt. 
I’ve forgiven everyone who bullied me, but there’s no way I’m going to see that play. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-27-2016/3/
Alyson
I am dying here. If I was speaking to a stranger, I would say “decomposing.” “Dying” still breaks the flatlining expectation of simple goodness in the minds of people here, even though these are the same thing. 
I wasn’t crying wolf, last year, when I wanted to go away to another school, but mostly another place. I didn’t know that junior year here would have been OK. I feel as though I woke up as the wolf one day, and that makes it hard to stick around when no one wants to understand you. 
I don’t learn. I tire myself wringing out every person I know for something new. At least I have muscles. 
These are my days, and it is a surgery to have them removed from my control. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-28-2016/3/
Cammy
I’ve been reading this book called A New Earth: Awakening to Your Life’s Purpose by Eckhart Tolle, for the past month or so. It’s a spiritual-type, self-help book, but not in the way of following any specific religion. It’s really vague about the “Awakening” which is the absolute goal or a state of being or something. 
A lot of what this book talks about is dismantling ALL social constructs, down to the alphabet and words and basic things like that. Tolle says that social constructs create our egos, and our egos are these thriving, living, evil things that take away from who you are, and hide your innermost self—the part of your that can feel the interconnectedness of all life forms. Tolle says that people learn from an early age that the 26 letters of the English alphabet, when mixed up and arranged to form words, can define who you are. But, he argues, that isn’t true, because you’re just defining your ego. 
Another thing with the ego is that angry feelings and bitterness come from there, not from within. Since understanding that me getting mad or yelling is just my ego trying to keep me from the interconnectedness I have within, I have become a lot less confrontational. It really helps me to pick my battles. I’m still learning how to keep those feelings in check, but it really helps to apply this thinking when dealing with other people. Sometimes my dad says some of the most utterly stupid things to me, and as mad as I could be, I just have to understand that he doesn’t get it. Or, not that he doesn’t get it, but that his ego has been conditioned by the social constructs in our society to think that it’s OK to say things like that to me. 
After reading fewer than one hundred pages of this book, I feel as though I have a better understanding of the people around me, which doesn’t make me happier. I see people so disconnected from who they really are, attaching their identities to opinions, and holding people accountable for things they can’t help or don’t understand, and it’s made me really frustrated. I’ve had two or three big cries this month, just because it feels like people don’t care about each other. 
Even the concept of right and wrong, or obtaining knowledge, forces you to choose a stance on something, and it’s created by fostering otherness between you and other people. That’s the ego. I am letting go of these ideas as much as I can. I’m learning to forgive people for things they can’t help, instead of holding grudges. I think the most important thing is to just take a step back and look at everything for what it really is. Everyone deserves a happy life, and it’s not gonna happen all at once, but the fact that I am reading this book and learning about how to be better is one more person being more in tune with what life has to offer. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-29-2016/3/
Fatma
Isn’t it weird that such horrible things go on in this world, yet some of us are immune to it? A 13 year old, African-American boy named Tyre King was shot by police for having a BB gun, which the police apparently thought was a real gun. When I found out about this, I immediately started crying and thinking, Is humanity not humane? Doesn’t anyone want to try and fix the obviously racist justice system. Shouldn’t someone in power make an effort to fix this problem? Why is no powerful figure changing things, to the point where Black people have to try and do it themselves? When I ask these questions, I’m definitely not overlooking Black Lives Matter activists; I think they’re really brave and are the voice for a lot of Black people who can’t protest. But as a child, I thought that there was right and wrong and that if something was wrong, someone would make it right. As I’ve matured slightly, I’ve realised that, sadly, this isn’t true. 
This ongoing injustice is why cultural appropriation really upsets me. For example, Kendall Jenner, and other models who were representing Marc Jacobs, recently wore colorful dreadlocks. Didn’t these white people feel bad taking features from Black people without ever having to face the problems that come along with being a Black person? Kendall Jenner doesn’t know how it feels to be scared to drive with a group of friends, just in case the police pulls them over. 
I hope people become more conscious. I know that I have to be, in order to survive in this confusing world. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/9/dear-diary-september-30-2016/3/
Fatma
I’m currently listening to a 7-inch John Travolta vinyl and crying in my room for no reason. I feel so confused, as if I’m not living up to the ideals of teenage life. I always feel like I have no more hope for mankind or for myself, but I’m so cynical that I almost find myself funny. I’m thinking the thoughts of a 40-year-old going through a midlife crisis. I’m like a character from a Woody Allen film. I spend my time watching films, wishing I lived in them. I try to be positive, but everything ends up the same. I don’t think there’s another 14-year-old who has the same constant thoughts about mortality and society as I do. When I look around, the people at my school are talking about shopping and the TV shows that they watched the night before. I’m sit alone thinking about fate or what infinity looks like. I’m basically Danny Pudi’s character in the show Community. But I’m more than a character. I’m a real life person. I honestly need to relax and, put in the simplest of terms, I have to stop thinking so much. 
On a separate note, I had a super weird dream in which a boy from school kissed me. And although I’ve never kissed anyone, it felt so real. I woke up feeling so weird and kind of disgusted with myself. I can’t even be relaxed in my dreams. 
I have so many emotions, going in different directions, at full speed. I’ll have to make a traffic light system for my feelings so that I don’t mentally crash and burn. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/8/dear-diary-august-1-2016/3/
Fatma
The continuous days at home are becoming slightly tedious. Luckily, I bought Juno on DVD, so I guess I have something to look forward to. Juno is definitely one of those films I can watch over and over without getting bored. 
I’ve decided to spend more time in my room because I’m constantly getting into arguments with my parents and my sister. I love my sister with all of my heart and I hate fighting with her, but we always end up arguing. Most of the time, it’s my fault. She’ll stop talking to me for a few days, we’ll reconcile and then we’ll argue again. I’m tired of it and I’m starting to feel extremely drained. 
Another thing that’s been on my mind recently, is the talk that my dad requested, which we eventually had. During 10-minutes, Dad basically told me to act like my sister, dress like my sister, and adopt the same attitude as my sister. My parents don’t realize how hurtful they can be. Why are they trying to change me? I like being comfortable at home and dancing to Lil Yachty songs, so why would they want me to pretend like I’m quiet and shy? I love the way I am. I would think they would understand that, since I’m so uncomfortable and shy at school, they would let me be hyper and happy at home. But sometimes I honestly can’t be bothered to think about this any more. They ignore me most of the time anyway because they’re so busy with work, so they must think that my problems are too minuscule to acknowledge. I’m fine with that, to be honest. I’m not going to be mad at my parents for working hard. 
Also, I’ve put a sign on my bedroom door that says, “If the door is closed, I’m not wearing a T-shirt. Don’t come in!” Although I’ve done this so that no one comes in, I rarely ever take my T-shirt off because I’m still scared that someone will ignore the sign and see me half-naked. But at least my family is extra careful before walking into my room. 
Although locking myself up in my room makes me feel even more lonely, at least I don’t have to deal with my family’s negative energy. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/8/dear-diary-august-2-2016/3/
Cammy
This week I changed my Instagram username, which is something I’ve been wanting to do for a long time. I’ve been @campireweekend for years and I started feeling tired of it because I’ve changed a lot since I created that username. It’s weird how my social media presence is so connected to the way I perceive my identity. I asked my followers and friends if I should change, it whether the name is a part of my “brand.” A lot of people said it’s a part of my brand, which is really funny to me because I’m not entirely sure what that means. I don’t really like thinking about how to market and advertise myself to people, but I do it anyways because I guess I want people to like me. But I changed it anyway, to @cammythepisces. It has more to do with astrology, and I feel like that’s a better reflection of who I am now. I don’t necessarily think it’s bad to care a lot about your internet persona; I’m just trying to present my most honest, current self to the world. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/8/dear-diary-august-3-2016/3/
Ananda
The five stages of getting over being dumped:
1. Crying.
This is the immediate reaction to getting broken up with: A lot of crying, even if you weren’t that invested in the relationship. This stage can also involve eating more or less than usual, sleeping a lot, and crying dramatically into a tub of ice cream while you listen to Celine Dion.
2. Denial and bargaining.
This stage can manifest in different ways. You can deny that the breakup has happened and try to act like everything is normal i.e. someone did not just step on your heart. Or you can tell yourself that you really don’t care and you’re better off this way, even though you don’t truly believe that yet. It can also include messaging your now ex-significant other demanding to know WHYYYY!??? and insisting you can make it better. 
3. ANGER.
This phase is probably the least annoying for the friends around you, and also feels like the healthiest for yourself. You question the loyalty of the ex, no matter your scenario. This is also when you start to blame your ex and forgive yourself for being the dumpee instead of the dumper. 
4. Promiscuity. 
This stage can be as active or as passive as you like—everyone is different. For some, this means sleep with or kissing someone new, or many new people. For others it means reinstalling all the dating apps and swiping through Tinder for days. Of course, some will just go online and look at pictures of Chris Hemsworth/Pine/Pratt. 
5. Acceptance and moving on.
This is the stage that we all wait for impatiently. You understand your ex’s decision and accept that it’s not going to change. And then you move in with your life in whatever way you see fit. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/8/dear-diary-august-4-2016/3/
Steffany
It has been a weird week. 
I feel as though I have a lot to figure out. I recently awoke to the news that a great internet friend of mine had died. Our relationship was that of big and little sister. Although she was old enough to be my mother, she had such a young spirit and she was able to share that with the world via social media. 
At first, I was confused. Should I be able to cry for someone I hadn’t met in real life? Although I only knew her through Twitter, we shared so much. She was a part of my daily life. Any thought or idea I shot out into the world was guaranteed to get some sort of input from her. Even when I didn’t agree with what she had to say, I considered it because I valued and respected her—she was my elder, and I knew she was coming from a caring place. 
I cried. I’m tearing up a li’l bit as I type this. It’s so weird how people can touch your life. She invested in me because she wanted to me to be the best person I could be. I mourn her loss but also I take solace in waking up every day hoping to fulfill her wish. That, to me, is comforting. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/8/dear-diary-august-5-2016/3/
Keianna
I’ve never really noticed how important geographic proximity is when forming any type of relationship. It was never a problem for me when I was younger. I was friends with whomever I went to school with and lived next door to. Back then, I didn’t know what the internet was all I knew were the computer games that taught me how to add. 
Now it feels like most of my friends are “internet friends,” and these people are my lifeline. I wake up every morning and the first thing I do is check my phone. I have a goodnight text from my friend who just recapped the day they’d had while I was sleeping. Another is asking my opinion on what they should have for lunch. 
I wish more than anything that I could reach through the phone and bring my friends here. I think that’s a fantasy shared by everyone with internet friends—that one day you’ll all meet and get to hang out. We’d finally get to prove the people who tell us that friends who aren’t right in front of you aren’t “real” wrong. But until the day we all meet: good morning, afternoon, or night. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/8/dear-diary-august-8-2016/3/
Keianna
The things I can find comfort in sometimes makes me feel weird but never surprise me. I feel the same comfort and familiarity in lying in my bed with the sound of loud hip hop making its way in from the party outside as someone else might feel when they hear someone sing the same lullaby their mom sang to them when they were young. 
In all honesty it might as well be a lullaby. I’m so tired it’s unreal and I only have myself to blame. I find comfort in making myself stay up as late as I possibly can. When I was little It felt like it was impossible to sleep. Even after my parents had gone to sleep and all the lights in the house were out I’d lie on my white princess bed and think. I taught myself a lot during those nights. I realized that I’d die one day while avoiding sleep in my pink and white room with my sisters sleeping in matching beds next to me. 
At that time, I lived in a house that was painted pink. Everyone I cared about and depended on lived right there with us. My grandma, my uncles, my parents, and my siblings. Eventually my great grandma moved in with us too. If that wasn’t enough to excite a second grader, the fact that we had a pool did. 
The one Christmas we spent there was the best I’d ever had. We got more toys than any child could possibly ask for. We pass by that house sometimes, it’s painted a dull brown color now. 
With every hour that passes while I’m staying up until ridiculous hours I’m reminded of all the good times we had at that house. Sometimes I feel like waking my sisters up to relive these memories with me. I never do.
I hope I find a healthy way to feel connected to that part of my life, because this sleeping schedule isn’t going to work when school starts again. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/8/dear-diary-august-9-2016/3/
Alyson
There was something about when he looked at you and you didn’t feel it. It scared me to not sense it. I didn’t see him until he had been seeing me for some time.
Why does every boy’s drawing of a bird turn into a rooster?
I never knew that necks could be things to dream about. Or things that you want to have them dream about. 
I walk alone on the streets of New York City and think constantly about how perfectly parallel this picture is to the one I had imagined in my head for the past two years. I’d seen it but hadn’t felt it, and that was the difference. I hadn’t known that this kind of sentimentality’s immense yet dismal beauty was directly related to the intense pain that travelled along side it. Dreams of sketching in the park stay in the air because I can’t stand to stay by myself. I want to stay here forever. Maybe because I am a masochist. But I swallow the pain so that I can bathe in the joy of being in this new plane of existence with these people whom I would never meet at home. 
Things hurt. I think my medicine only works when we are both at home. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/8/dear-diary-august-10-2016/3/
Thahabu
Good news! I’m back to being cool with solitude. Which means I’m coming to more chill terms with myself. For two days I stayed in my room and worked on a collage, then I took myself out for food and read a book. I didn’t even realize that I’d been silent the whole day gluing and cutting until I got a text from my friend reminding me that we were going out later.
Although I still have bad days and moments, overall I feel so much lighter. It may be because it’s summer, and I’m not in school, but I’ll be attending a different campus in the fall; maybe I’ll be able to maintain this level of subtle tranquility. My new roommate emailed me last week and I think we’re going to get along just fine. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/8/dear-diary-august-11-2016/3/
Kiana
I’m having a hard time being a person in the world. Even now as I’m typing these words, my fingers padding across the keyboard, there’s a sense of denial and even a soul-cringe. Yikes, me.
I wrote in my daily planner three days ago that I should not be ashamed of admitting that I’m having a rough time with handling life in general. My friendships are all over the place: everyone asks me anything and I oblige without ever questioning because they are my friends and I’d be the worst one ever to question a friend or even brood or have second thoughts regarding their motives. BUT, I am a stubborn child of the sun! I still question them at the end of the day, in the darkness of my room. My grandmother lashes out at me time and again because I fail to answer to her errands because of schoolwork and my emotional lowest of lows. I’d like to think I’m just “feeling under the weather,” that this is just an episode that will pass, that I’m just being overly in touch with my “female, emotional side,” that I should “tap more into rational thinking and stop bitching around.” But nah, I know better. As stubborn as I am, I’m listening to my body, quietly: My anxiety levels have been pretty high and the tingling, crawling sensation in my arms and legs has become frequent, so much so that I experience episodes of “brain shivers,” that’s what Google told me they’re called. As much as I’d like to think I’m OK, my body tells me otherwise. I’ve been thinking about booking a physician’s or a psychiatrist’s appointment for almost four months now, but my bank account is more stubborn than my head. THX VERY MUCH, WORLD.
Books, sunlight, and my dog: these are what get me through, the ones making me keep right on. I’m reading Marguerite Duras’s The Lover and dipping back and forth into Adrienne Rich’s An Atlas of the Difficult World—both of which I find terrifying yet so comforting. To know that one is not alone, that one feels the pain, discomfort, and hurt of another. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/8/dear-diary-august-12-2016/3/
Alyson
I meant to write down every time I saw something happen and thought, This is what it means to grow up. But I am myself, so of course I did not. How do I write about this? How do you write an elephant into a rabbit’s cage? Please let me know. 
I didn’t need to be high like the rest of them to feel what I knew to be my life uncurl from my fingers and wander away. I didn’t need to be drunk to act loopy, because it was the only way for me to stay sane. I didn’t need to start up with lean, because I’m not suicidal. 
People complimenting me feels like knocks on a tin can with a painted yellow smiley face. I’m warm but can’t keep it for long. I actively consider how I have been able to keep up for the past two months here in NYC, and can only attribute it to people’s jealous comments and catcalls. Love it. 
My professors are impressed. A good email; that one is going in the archives. Saying my writing was beautiful, he might as well have said that I was, too. What could be in his life to make him say such things? Like the rest of them, he goes home to a wife who can accept a lion’s mane of hair and their new kid. Even beautiful writing is forgotten.
So this is what it means to not grow up. I am going to go home next week, think things will be easy compared to this East Coast ride, and quickly realize that people are humans and can’t be “easier” because of a geographic variation. 
This is what it means to grow up. To go home next week, think things will be easy compared to the past two months, and then . . . ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/8/dear-diary-august-15-2016/3/
Kiana
No, you’re not falling in a dark hole unto oblivion. You’re here, floating amongst the darkness with the stars—some brighter than others, dull, but alive and glowing nonetheless.
Yes, you’re breathing and walking—little swollen feet wearing worn-out shoes, old clackity soul carrying a tired, heavy body. But it’s fine. You are gonna be fine. Hold on to that.
Maybe you’re not real, or maybe you are. What are the odds of the latter being true? Wait, what’s that? You just passed by a mirror and a pair of eyes were looking right at you, like a twin from another dimension. That may not be enough of a testament to your realness, to your being a person in the world, but give it the benefit of the doubt. Hold on to it. “Trust in the you of now,” said an Instagram photo of a card from Fort Consolation.
This is not a dream in which you suddenly find all the right tools to survive. This is trial and error, calculate and recalculate. Give yourself the space to try and fail, to crouch down on the ground with misery, and to rise up and look people in the eyes again. Give yourself the space to live even when the world restricts you and tells you otherwise. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/8/dear-diary-august-16-2016/3/
Lilly
It’s a slow night. I stay up late for no reason. It’s good at first but later it gets kinda bad. I’m tired beyond belief but every time I go to sleep I risk having another one of those dreams. The ones that don’t seem horrific until I half wake up and my head is still stuck in dreamland but my body is stiff as a board in my bed, filling up with a sense of impending doom like someone switched on a faucet in my brain. And the thing is they really aren’t that bad, just weird, but I always come back to life with that feeling of panic, and I hate that. I can’t stand losing control.
I could be doing something with my time spent awake. I have friends to text and grocery lists to make and clothes to pack. But here I am, reading back the half-gibberish summaries of these dreams. I wrote them all while still in that weird headspace where you’re groggy as hell from sleep but your skin is crawling and your heart’s beating so fast. Maybe you were running in the dream. Maybe you were in pain. Maybe it’s best if you don’t remember.
I find my resolve. I meditate—maybe that will stave them off for the night. I switch off the lights. I go to sleep.
It’s a dark morning. I didn’t dream and that much is a blessing. The house is already empty and outside my window the rain is coming down hard. It could be the last day of peace like this before I leave home, so I lie in bed and listen to music. It’s good and this time it doesn’t just get worse from there.
I took this personality quiz recently (because what’s more fun than the internet generating vague descriptions of your subconscious that would be applicable to nearly any living human being?!) and one of the defining traits it listed for me was resilience. I’ve been thinking about that a lot. Over the past couple of years I’ve gone from my lowest to my highest and back again so many times that my head spins just thinking about it, but in the end I’m still here. For nearly 18 years I’ve fought those lows and I’ve won every time, and maybe I’m just at a high point right now, but I’m going to cling to it, no matter what it takes. Nightmares be damned. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/8/dear-diary-august-17-2016/3/
Cammy
All summer, I’ve been super frazzled about what English class I’m gonna be in. Last year, I took honors English. I was really good at it, but I only did half the work. I still got a B in the class, though, and since honors is weighted, it counted as an A in my GPA. My teacher told me that he doesn’t want to put me through to honors because I’m too unreliable. But the teachers that teach unweighted college prep English at my school are REALLY bad, and I like English so I don’t want to be in a bad class and start hating it. So, even though my teacher told me I was gonna be in College Prep English Four, I decided I would just do the Honors summer assignment. Since school starts in two weeks, though, I’ve been really nervous, wondering if it’s the best idea to rebel and do the wrong assignment, because what if I do get College Prep English? Then, not only will I have done the wrong assignment, but I won’t have the right assignment for when school starts. 
A couple of nights ago I started complaining to my mom about it, because this really REALLY has been stressing me out. She gave me a whole lecture saying that I should have tried harder and my English teacher believed in me and I had so much potential and blah blah blah. I started getting annoyed and said, “I don’t know what English class I’m gonna be in this year,” since I don’t get my schedule until registration mid-August. But that set off off a lightbulb in my mom’s head: “I already have your schedule I could have told you what class you’re in,” she said.
And at this point, I’m super confused and, like, angry at myself for being so worried, and angry at her for not telling me all summer. It’s not normal to have your schedule before registration at all, but it turns out my mom went and talked to my counselor and they shaped out my year for me based on my transcript and my A-G requirements. My mom got my schedule and guess what?! I have honors English! I’m happy because I got what I wanted, but I’m mad because if I hadn’t decided to do the honors assignment, I wouldn’t have known and I would have done the wrong thing. I guess sometimes there are advantages to doing the wrong thing. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/8/dear-diary-august-18-2016/3/
Illustration by Minna Gilligan.
I am used to using a lot of punctuation—exclamation points, question marks, and commas. However, I am now very hesitant to use any of them. I am scared because putting a period at the end of my sentence means saying goodbye and not communicating with you again.
This diary entry will be my last one, and therefore, I have decided to say everything without hesitation, fear, or embarrassment. Life might not give me another chance to share everything that I want to say.
You all know my story. I have been sharing it with you since I was that innocent little child filled with happiness, whose life was turned upside down by the brutal Syrian crisis. It took away everything that I loved, including my father. When he was killed, I moved from the safe and beautiful world where I had been living, to a scary and painful one. My name, Marah [Joy], did not fit my new world anymore.
My city was bombed and subjected to the Syrian regime’s massacres, starvation blockades, and missiles. I witnessed destruction and blood. I witnessed children dying, and young men being destroyed by war. I was shocked and silent in the beginning, but I reached a point where I could no longer contain my anger, and that’s when I rejected and rebelled against my new reality.
The only person I was able to actually rebel against was my mother. However, she was wise and patient, and she did all she could to contain my anger. She consulted with one of the support organizations, and they suggested that I write down my feelings to express my anger, sense of rejection, and frustration through words. They also found a media source that agreed to publish those entries, and this is how I began communicating with you.
The number of people who read my entries empowered me, encouraged me to write more, and inspired me to share the suffering that we were all living through. My city was besieged by the Syrian regime, and then ruled from within by a group of oppressive and corrupt people. It was impossible to pursue my studies there, so I left and headed to Damascus by myself, despite the risks. In Damascus, I managed to pass my high school exams and enroll in college. I entered into a field that I had never imagined before: manufacturing and installing prosthetic limbs. My choice was inspired by the devastating cases of people who lost limbs in my city because of the war.
After seven months in Damascus alone, my family finally joined me. Our life in Damascus was not any easier than it had been in our hometown, Ghouta. I had to take on new responsibilities to help my mother, who was overwhelmed by many different pressures. Since my father had died in Ghouta, a city that rebelled against the government, the regime and its allies saw us as the family of a criminal. What’s more, my mother was struggling to provide for us in the expensive city of Damascus.
Later, I decided to leave Syria for Switzerland. Although my mother did not want to leave Syria, she finally decided that she and my siblings should join me, because she did not want me to be alone. The hardest part of our journey was when we crossed the Mediterranean to Greece on a little boat. We knew that the boat was not safe, but we had no other choice. The fact that we ended up safely reaching Greece felt like a true miracle. I spent my first night in Greece in the wilderness and the cold, but I knew that I must continue.
In each country I passed through on my journey to Switzerland, I was humiliated in one way or another—I was treated like a hungry animal, or germ that spreads diseases. In Germany, I had the worst experience—one that separated me from my family. When I finally arrived in Switzerland, I met with Karam, who is now my husband, face-to-face for the first time. I had gotten to know him while I was still in Syria though our online communication. I was very tired physically, emotionally, and mentally, and therefore I decided to marry him. I needed to finally rest and settle, and marriage felt like a safe solution.
Despite the difference in our ages, worldviews, and opinions, Karam has given me a lot of love and support. One month after our marriage, I discovered that I was pregnant. I was shocked at the beginning. I did not want this pregnancy to continue because I was scared that with all the suffering I had been through, I would not be able to provide my child with a healthy environment. But the moment I heard the heartbeat of that young being, and the moment I felt it move inside me, everything changed. Now, I cannot wait to meet my baby, and all I dream of is to provide him or her with a great life.
I am focused now on studying German so that I can continue with my studies here in Switzerland. Although I miss Syria very much, my life here is a new beginning, and a new chapter. I want to continue to educate and empower myself, and to one day go back and help my people and my country, which I will never forget.
I have poured all of the feelings that I have had since the death of my father into the entries that I have written here. These diaries helped me survive, and this magazine has supported and empowered me. Writing here has given me the important opportunity to help people understand the reality and the suffering that Syrians are enduring. No matter how small my role, writing here has made me feel that I could do something; that I could uncover some of the Syrian truth, and communicate it to the outside world. I was honest with every word and every letter that I wrote, and I am very grateful to this magazine for helping me and my family throughout our difficult journey.
I am not going to say goodbye, but rather, I will say so long. Who knows, perhaps life will bring us together again through this magazine. So I will not close this entry with a period, but rather with an ellipsis. To be continued…
Sincerely,
Marah, a Syrian woman, and the daughter of a man who was killed in Eastern Ghouta ♦
Marah’s diary is produced in collaboration with Syria Deeply, a digital news outlet covering the Syrian crisis. It has been translated from Arabic.
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/8/dear-diary-august-19-2016/3/
Simone
These are the lyrics to a very lightheartedly-angry song I wrote for every boy who has ever wronged me. But, I will never sing it to anyone, because that would entail people listening very closely to the weariness in my voice, and the sharp breaths between stanzas, and realizing that, at this present moment, I would never spite any male who validates me, no matter how ass-y they may act. 
I’m not empowered, I just listen to a lot of Carly Simon.
Last year my skin got bad
and I gained 13 pounds.
This year, I’m way less stressed
even starving, I’ve kept my chest.
When you wear that stupid shirt
your smirks fuel flashbacks
to the times, I would find
my composed disinterest start to crack.
And now my face is a place
that I find, your eyes rest.
Do you see me more clearly
now that I’m best?
You crawled under my skin
Poked and prodded
but you never let me in yours, why?
Is now a good time?
Yes you’re the reason I wrote this song
and I won’t be flattered when they say you sang along
Cause I’m sure you’re immature and I knew you were before
Now I’ve finished all my chores, you broke my heart
but not much more.
As a kid, we starved the cat
The vet said she was getting fat
And she cried into her bowl.
With desire, there’s no control. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/8/dear-diary-august-22-2016/3/
Kiana
“…There is nothing, nothing that stops me from doing anything except myself.”
—Susan Sontag in Reborn: Journals & Notebooks (1947-1963)
Last night my mind was exceptionally clear, which was a surprise. Maybe it was the coffee I bought with my own money, the coffee that served as a reward to myself for suffering patiently, for enduring three weeks of having no pennies in my pockets. Suffering patiently reminds me of my Catholic household upbringing, where I was taught to suffer patiently and endure for God because the glory that will come after would be incomparable. Maybe this teaching is still in my bloodstream after years of trying to run from the confines of religion and, who knows, maybe subconsciously I’m still this rigid Catholic disciplinarian parent to myself. In my high school, self-discipline was taught. But it was self-discipline against a human being’s original nature; it was self-discipline that catered to the faithful, that promoted the denial of self to bring glory to God. I couldn’t reconcile myself with this idea of god, so I chose to go my own way. Last week at a school event, my friend noticed me not doing the sign of the cross during the opening ceremony invocation. She asked afterwards if I wasn’t Catholic anymore. I told her I no longer adhere to the church.
Breaking free from whatever form of bondage or constraint is liberating. Now I can see how brave both the godless and the godly are—the godless for choosing to live solipsistically, vicariously; the godly for submitting themselves to this elevated ideal of a divine being, a hand spinning the wheel of life, omnipotent and merciful, but equally just. It takes some form of bravery to renounce faith in a higher being and another form of bravery to succumb and be entrenched, at times blindly, by ideals put up by men of yore.
Propelled by women writers I’ve obsessively followed through the years, I think I’m now ready to put myself “near to the wild heart of life,” to borrow Clarice Lispector’s words. I’ve been sketching quite hastily and mapping out plans in my brain, then on to paper, and have been listing names of like-minded people I can talk with to help and inspire me more. I want the teenagers and women in my country to feel autonomous, to feel like they matter and are heard, that they deserve the space they’re in despite the shaky political atmosphere in the Philippines right now. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/8/dear-diary-august-23-2016/3/
Cammy
I’m starting my senior year this week and I’m not nervous at all. I don’t wanna say that I’m tired of being anxious, but I think I am. I need to feel less attached to the things I used to do, because that affects the way I carry myself currently. I really really hate feeling anxious (obviously, because it’s a bad feeling), but I’m understanding that I need to take charge of my life and make decisions for myself and not be so passive. If I don’t wanna be anxious anymore, I don’t want to wait for the universe to start making my life easier. That’s a huge issue—we can want things to change but just wait for it to happen. I used to be like this and it was hard, but I made it harder on myself by not taking the initiative to make something happen. My entire life I’ve been so passive—or depressed and unmotivated—and I was always wishing for something better. Now, I’m training myself to give myself what I want. I can start with little things and then move onto really helping myself out. I think with that mentality, this year, I’m gonna be a much stronger and more outspoken person. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/8/dear-diary-august-24-2016/3/
Fatma
The number of days before I go back to school are fewer and fewer. Although I am enjoying this summer break, I’m excited to go back to school and to be motivated to study more. My goal for this academic year is to get my first A. I always get Bs and Cs, and I desperately want to improve. It’s not like I’m upset about my grades, it’s just that I know there is always room for me to improve and my mom would be proud of me if I focused on getting higher grades. 
My mom has been quite proud of me recently though, especially because I won an award for my work in Religious Studies. I really like having this goal of making my parents proud, because it pushes me on to doing better work and trying my hardest in whatever I’m studying. I can’t wait to return to school as an older, more confident version of myself. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/8/dear-diary-august-25-2016/3/
Simone
I’ve spent the past few hours rummaging through one of my two dressers, sorting clothes. I am overly sentimental, which is clearest in my overprotection of material objects, specifically the things I wear. If I get rid of enough clothes, maybe I can force myself to change.
This all started because my friend went to college and had to design herself an entirely new room. And I realized that one day very soon, I will be doing the same. I won’t just be leaving my room, but my friends, and my school, and my town, and all the tickets for movies I’ve seen taped to my walls, and the box full of diaries containing the details of every hi jinx, and the mirror in which I eventually became secure in my exterior.
When this happens, all the story and heart and emotion I’ve poured into the unhurried curation of my bedroom, into the most truthful expression of my inner self will have been useless. To make that fact OK, I need to start ridding myself of the shirts and shoes I’ve neglected for years; mere burdensome tokens of the past. I need to free some space so I can move, and, I hope, move away. But to move away, I must part with my past gradually. I can do it, and I must. This will be healthy.
Although I suppose writing about this isn’t the best way to prove I can become less sentimental. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/8/dear-diary-august-26-2016/3/
Thahabu
My friends and I went to the beach on Thursday. I was hesitant to wear my bikini; unsure about whether I wanted to have my scoliosis and surgical scars out on display like that, but when I finally built up the courage to put it on I thought I looked pretty damn good. I had been to the beach on my trip to San Diego, but I didn’t have a bathing suit that time. So, after seven years of avoiding coastal waters, Thursday afternoon was the time for me to take on the beach for real. I needed to throw myself into that beautiful body of water and face my fear. I was still a little nervous about showing so much skin in a public place, but once we started towards the water I realized there’s nothing weird about me, because I like me. Plus as the saying goes “ain’t no nobody looking at you!” We dipped our feet in and squealed, it was sooo cold. As we went deeper it felt amazing. Just like me wearing my bikini, once I embraced it I was fine.
As we jumped, swam, and crashed into waves we couldn’t help but talk about how good it felt to be there. We discussed how the ocean is said to have a significant amount of negative ions, which is why we feel see so high and overjoyed when we’re near it. It’s so much stronger than us. It makes our lives seem insignificant, and in a good way. I belonged there. I felt silly for denying myself this joy for almost 10 years. 
When we got back, I decided to have a sleepover with Annabelle at my house because it had begun to rain and she couldn’t get a ride home. The beginning of the night was pretty calm. We sat on my porch and watched the raindrops fall between the trees that surround my house. You would’ve thought we were in a rainforest. Then someone who I thought was a good friend drunkenly FaceTimed me, and everything went sour. At first, I thought she was calling to jokingly complain about petty boy drama. However, 30 minutes into her whining I realized she was actually seriously upset because a boy who she claimed she wasn’t trippin over didn’t text her all day. I thought this was a really stupid reason to call me acting like the world was ending, but me being the “good listener friend,” decided to endure her theatrics, and tried (and failed) to see it from her perspective.
She asked me for advice. When the advice wasn’t what she wanted to hear she began yelling at me. She asked for advice again and did the same thing, going in a virulent circle. I let her know that this cycle wasn’t going to get her anywhere. She asked what she should do, I replied “I don’t know,” because I genuinely didn’t. I’m usually good at putting myself in others shoes, but no part of me could relate to being stressed about not getting text back from a boy who isn’t my boyfriend. This prompted her to get angrier. She was acting like she owned me; as if I had some magical answer to her problems that I was purposely keeping away from her. I tried to comfort her and tell her she wasn’t crazy but then she screamed, “BITCH, DON’T CALL ME CRAZY!” 
I wasn’t having it. She called me out my name when I was just trying to help her. I attempted to explain that she’d misinterpreted what I’d said, but she refused to listen. She just wanted to be mad, and as long as she was mad everyone else had to be mad, too. I yelled back at her and hung up the phone. She called back. I told her to relax, then she screamed about the text again. Listening and occasionally chiming in, Annabelle then noticed how wild this whole situation was, and how uncomfortable it was making me. Her eyes widened, “Wait this is all over a text?! Dude I sometimes go a whole day without looking at my phone!” I laughed with relief, happy to know that I wasn’t the only one who thought she was blowing this out of proportion. My friend on the phone laughed then, too, then went back to demanding that I fix her problems. She was still being dramatic and yelling when a different boy texted her. Her entire mood shifted. She smiled: “Oh my god, never mind I feel better now, thanks. I’m ready to party, you guys are boring.” I hung up the phone.
I was suddenly overwhelmed with disgust. If all it took was a different boy texting her to make her happy and calm the fuck down why did she call me? I’d never felt so used. She literally just called to have someone watch her talk to herself. In those moments, I realized that she was only yelling at me because she couldn’t yell at the boy she was mad at. She saw me as an emotional punching bag. That is not how a good friend is supposed to treat you. 
In the morning she texted me, apologizing for calling me boring, as if that’s what would have bothered me. There were a shopping list of things, besides that bogus insult, she should’ve apologized for. I texted her explaining how what she did hurt me, and showed that she had no regard for me. She didn’t care and felt she had done nothing wrong. I pretty much told her if she doesn’t want to be a logical person, who respects people’s emotional boundaries I don’t need to be her friend.
Ending that friendship kind of felt like a breakup. We’d been close for more than two years, but the fact that she was comfortable enough to treat me like that made me wonder if our whole friendship was a farce. Did she only like me because I’m a good listener? As frustrating as that argument was, it did put me into a fit of rage and I decided to text everyone who has been using me for my emotional support to tell them how I really felt. I held nothing back, letting them know that this was an ultimatum, and if they continued draining me of my energy I would dead our friendship just like I did with the other girl. They responded with sincere apologies, and I haven’t been harassed for advice since. 
I also woke up without a voice that day, which I have to admit was pretty funny: I left the ocean, came back to land, and lost the ability to speak. I felt like Ariel in The Little Mermaid. I was only worried because a different friend I haven’t seen in almost a year was throwing a big brunch on Sunday and I wanted to be able to talk to everyone! I assured her that I’d still be coming, but I wouldn’t be as chatty. I was then reminded that I still have the most caring and sweetest friends in the world. She texted back saying she didn’t mind at all because she would feed me mint tea all day to heal my throat. Why should I be be hung up over mean spirited former friends when I have so many others, old and new, that respect and love me for who I am? 
The brunch was just what I needed. It’s always a sweet, settling feeling when you get to meet up with friends you haven’t seen in forever. I totally forgot about the drama of the day before. Maybe growing up means leaving behind some friends to make room for other, kinder ones. I want to be happy, and I know happiness is more of an up and down concept than something I can just keep up with indefinitely, but I do want to consciously avoid situations and people that purposely bring me down. 
I’ve figured out my payment plan for school and I move in next week. I’m so ready to step into this next chapter of my life. I’ve experienced so many drastic encounters in my life that in the long run, caused me to grow into a better, more seasoned version of myself. Inner change is something I’ve found to be unavoidably beautiful. And I’m super excited to meet and deal with all these new personal changes I’m going through right now. A whole new me is incipient. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/8/dear-diary-august-29-2016/3/
Cammy
My first day of school was really bad! All of my classes were mixed up and I had classes where I didn’t know anyone at all. The classes I was most excited for were art and French, but those turned out to be the worst. In art, everyone was really mean: Mean about art, and then mean to the teacher about HER art. By the end of class, everything felt super negative. Then in French class, there were only six kids and I was the only one that didn’t go to the local bilingual school, so everyone was fluent in French except for me. The teacher made me get up and say things in French, and in that moment my anxiety was so bad I could only remember how to say my name and my age and basic stuff like that, which made me look even worse. To top it off, everyone kinda laughed at me and wrote me off immediately. It was really bad, and it felt even worse since I was also the only black girl there. I also have a history with the French teacher who is actually pretty anti-black. (In ninth grade she dedicated “Papaoutai” by Stromae to “every African American student” in the class, because apparently every black kid’s father is absent; even though she’d literally met my dad the week before.) 
I decided to leave both of those classes, and within the first two or three days of school my schedule got changed almost four times. I’m in a much nicer art class, and I have government and two other classes with my good friend Jasmine. Probably the best part of my revised schedule is having fourth and fifth periods free—for now, my lunch is almost three hours long. I’m happy for this free time because it gives me zero excuses to not have my work done. So now I just finish all my work during my free periods and when I get home after school I don’t have to set aside time for homework. Also I’m sad that I left French, but I’m getting a French tutor who will teach me how to be fluent! I’m really happy that everything worked out. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/8/dear-diary-august-30-2016/3/
Ananda
You are art.
Your body is art, a form made up of trillions of molecules, fit together in an impossible combination to form you. You are a framework of flesh and bones, here purely by coincidence but here, beautifully, nonetheless.
When you smile, you are a gallery of paintings new and old. Pearly white edges or a yellowing canvas. Only there for those that look close enough, only there for those that see that you’re art.
A sculpture that flows, slowly through a moment of time. The curve of your hair, the movement of your lips as you speak and your arms as you hold. You never knew that motion could be so alluring.
Your words are whispers in the wind, poetry written in what you say and how you feel. It is art, you are art. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/8/dear-diary-august-31-2016/3/
Kiana
I sit longer than I should in this cafe with lights that hurt my eyes. I’m with two acquaintances: One tells me that they lost their virginity two weeks ago; the other shows me the artwork and stickers he got in an art fair three hours ago. I ask for one sticker which had a Lichtenstein-esque print of a lady on a telephone saying “OHHH, ALRIGHT” on it because it reminds me of me. I put the sticker on my laptop, ripping and removing the two old stickers whose prints have faded over time.
I’m in this cafe for a spoken word event. The brochure said it will start at 7 PM, but it’s now half past 7. The place overflows with people. The air conditioner barely works. We are left to clamor for breath, a hopeless attempt to steady everyone’s rising body temperature. Science can speak for this phenomenon.
What science can’t speak for is the heaviness in my chest as I sit here looking, looking. At a nearby table six teenagers are discussing the individual characters and personalities of their friends who obviously aren’t there at present. I observe them for quite a time, 20 minutes or so, and then turned to my friend sitting next to me and told them, “You know, when I am talking about other people with other people, it feels OK and natural, and like, not that big of a deal. But when I closely watch people talking about other people with other people, it makes me wonder what’s the point.” They just shrugged and nodded, a dangerous combination which could mean they truly understood, or they didn’t, not completely.
A friend once told me that our hearts are like stained glass windows. We can either add more metallic salts to the glass (apparently this is how stained glass windows are colored!) and color them as much as we’d like to, or we can just leave it at that, a normal and plain stained glass window out of all the stained glass windows of the world. I don’t quite understand this allegory, but I remember it now thinking about how I ache so much for the world that sometimes I don’t have enough room for the light to seep through. Like I’m allowing the world to add more metallic salts to my heart’s glass so its colour would turn out more vivid, even though I actually can’t see the light anymore. The colours in my stained glass window are not colours of my choosing and interest, but of the world’s. Sometimes I lie awake at night after a long day of floating at school and miss being a third grader who can finish a whole colouring book in one sitting and enjoy the heck out of it. Or, like, the feeling of being 15 and not caring what others think about your version of Edvard Munch’s “The Scream” because for you it’s enough that you worked hard for it and had fun along the way (see: a feeling I never did once feel).
How do I reconcile myself with the truth that I’m never gonna go back to being 15, with all the time and energy and space to do what I want to do? How do I reconcile myself to truths that hurt, truths that I can’t change, and go on living? ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/7/dear-diary-july-1-2016/3/
Thahabu
Everyone has been talking about Desiigner’s XXL freshman freestyle this week. I really liked it: It’s not that I think it was especially esoteric or that Desiigner is one of the best lyricists of our time, but it was catchy and he really has a knack for rhythm. But what stuck out to me most was that the tune sounds like a lullaby, yet the lyrics are extremely morbid. It’s basically about Timmy Turner killing everyone with a gun. Initially the juxtaposition made me giggle, but then it reminded of the summer my younger cousin got shot by a stray bullet almost 10 years ago. 
He was eight and I was 11. I was standing in the kitchen while my dad was chopping fruit or something when I got the news, I remember the way the sun was coming in and hitting our light brown countertop, it was so shiny. “Jabari* got shot yesterday, he’s in the hospital and he might not walk again.” My mouth went dry and my head became a hazy smog. It didn’t really register to me, what had happened. 
I had just seen Jabari and my other cousins the weekend before, I was ecstatic about starting middle school and he’d found out he was going to skip the fourth grade. I was so proud of him. My cousins live in Newark, New Jersey, a 10 minute drive from where I live. Being the shy kid that I was, I preferred spending my weekends playing games and having sleepovers with them over interacting with the children in my own town. That’s why I always say that half my childhood was spent in Newark, playing hopscotch and running to the corner store for honey buns and Now and Laters with my cousins and their friends. I became so attached to that block that even when my cousins weren’t home and I was just being babysat by my grandma I’d go next door and hang out with their neighbor Makayla. 
At that age I didn’t pay much attention to the differences between our neighborhoods. From my perspective, the South Ward of Newark was heaven. It was my dad’s hometown, and where I received the most love from overly concerned aunties and my grandma. Reports of gunfire and gang disputes seemed so irrelevant and far-fetched to me, That doesn’t happen where my relatives live, there’s so much love there, it’s so safe! I was woefully ignorant and, that summer, I learned that ignorance is a privilege. Even though I was there every weekend. I didn’t live there. I was able to appreciate it as the wonderful place that it is just like my family members could, but I was able to ignore community issues that they could not. They had friends who had been victim to gun violence, something could never imagine until it happened to Jabari. 
Things started to change after that. Jabari was in the hospital for what seemed like a year. Visits to my grandma’s house became less frequent—my dad didn’t want me visiting my friends and family over there as much. It wasn’t safe, in his opinion. I didn’t understand it then, but his intentions were in the right place. I felt guilty, though, for not seeing them. Whenever I did, they’d complain that they missed me. As time went by, they made new friends whom I didn’t recognize and I began to feel out of the loop. 
When Jabari finally left the hospital, he was in a wheelchair and struggled with depression and post-traumatic stress disorder. He still kept his lively sense of humor and positive outlook on the future, but it was still a difficult adjustment. I was so angry that his way of life had taken a such radical turn while he was riding his bike home from football practice. One of our other friends was shot in the arm that year, too, and I now understood these horrific acts of violence, especially in summer, weren’t just news stories that I could shake my head at while watching CNN. 
After that, I began to get agitated about the way people used the word “ghetto.” I felt that when people misused the word or talked down on those neighborhoods they were talking about my family. It disgusted me that people who had never even stepped foot in an inner city area had so much nonsense to say about it and the people who lived there. I was sitting with my friends in freshman lunch when one of them used the word in a really offensive way that she wasn’t aware of and I started screaming at her. I even followed her into the bathroom when she tried to diffuse the situation because I was so upset. It was years after my cousin’s shooting and he was walking with the help of a cane. But I see now that I acted that way because I was triggered. 
Last year, me and my friend Max were talking about how much we love Chance the Rapper. They started playing “paranoia,” the second half of Chance’s “Pusha Man” song. Although I had heard the song before, I had no idea of its name, so when it started I was surprised. “I heard everybody dies in the summer / So pray to god for a little more spring,” I told Max to shut it off because it reminded me of the summer Jabari was shot. I felt so bad about inconveniencing them, but the song highlights how, while summer is a fun and relaxing time, it can also mean the start of senseless violence for a lot of people. I’m reminded of this whenever Jabari posts an RIP Instagram picture for friends that were murdered.
When I heard about the Pulse nightclub shooting and the death of Christina Grimmie, I cried and got really depressed. My friends were sad too, but didn’t understand why it affected me so much. It’s reactions like that they make me embarrassed to discuss this story, because I know it makes them view me in a different light. ♦ 
*Names have been changed.
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/7/dear-diary-july-5-2016/3/
Lilly
Sometimes I hardly feel cognizant of the days passing. I go to work and come home and shower and eat and sleep and repeat until a coworker asks me the day of the week and I practically have to count them off on my fingers from the last time I looked at a calendar. “It’s Wednesday…I think?” I tell them. “It’s Thursday,” says my boss. Shows what I know.
I’ll be honest. This is not the idyllic summer of my early high school dreams. Some of my friends have part-time jobs, but most of them keep theirs lowkey, below 25 hours per week—while I’m too tired for running and hiking and even just hanging out after being on my feet, surrounded by people, for 35+. Already this summer there are so many things I’ve meant to do—self-study physics, run every day, spend more time outside and in the garden—and instead I can barely roll out of bed to make it to a 10 AM shift. It feels silly to be complaining about working less than full time. It feels childish to try to act like oh, I’m not used to it, that’s why it’s so hard! 
But my outlook is changing, too. I haven’t seen any of my friends in days. Maybe weeks, now. The last time I went out with any of them I cringed when I swiped my debit card to pay for my food and it felt like an end to something. The $15 I spent that night sat tauntingly in my bank statement later and now I look at them and I think, I’m not a child anymore. I just signed away the next four years of my life in federal loans and promissory notes. Right now it feels as if it will take a miracle for everything to work out as I always pictured it.
I’m not making sense. What can I do? I work. I text my friends, but I don’t see them, don’t spend what I’ve earned if I can avoid it. I try to sleep a lot and most of the time I end up sleeping only a little. It’s odd. I feel odd lately. I’m not sure what I can do about it. It will soon pass, I hope. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/7/dear-diary-july-6-2016/3/
Steffany
After failed attempts to learn on my own, I signed up for Intersessions, a program that teaches girls and queer femmes how to DJ. I was super duper hype to go, even though the commute was close to two hours, including a 15-minute walk. I met up with my homegirl who landed a cool internship in Midtown and we went from there. 
Although we arrived a little bit late, the vibe in the room was nothing short of uplifting. I’ll admit, I was a bit nervous, as I always am when thrusted into new social situations. Yet, there was no need to be anxious here. I was actually kinda feeling myself when an instructor came up to me and thought I was a professional DJ there to teach the girls. And when she found out I wasn’t, she quickly got me the program worksheets and chatted with me about music. 
On the side of those sheets were messages of encouragement such as, “You are important. You are valued. You are special.” It set me at ease, being in a group full of people who want to see me win. They were sending the elevator down, so to speak, giving younger women our own shot at DJing and learning outside of the hostile spaces they learned in. 
The most important takeaway was when our instructor ShyDaughter told us we should play whatever we want. We’re curators of music, which sounds so posh. I took that to heart though. I want to mix different sounds together. Most of them aren’t current, but I know what I like. 
I’m gonna try to save up to buy some CDJs and a mixer, although those joints are expensive as hell!! I see them as a investment; I’ll throw parties in the community room of my apartment building, charge people $5 and play music that creates a vibe. Maybe get my auntie to cook some food or something. A li’l kickback and a way for young black artists in my town to mingle a bit.
After Intersessions, I ran home trying to mix songs in Virtual DJ. They definitely instilled a great sense of confidence in your girl ’cause I’m still trash. However, I have the foundation I needed! Just gotta save up my coin and think of some dope DJ names. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/7/dear-diary-july-7-2016/3/
Kiana
There’s nothing like curling into a ball, alone in my dark room, after a day of stress, insecurity, and anxiety at school.
I had a little PMS blow-up the other day. I was already stressed out by nearly everything, when my grandma called to ask if I could go home for a while to buy her some food because she hadn’t had lunch yet. I checked the time and it was already 2 PM, which meant that it was pretty late for lunch (which worried and stressed the hell out of me), and that my Biology laboratory class would start in under 30 minutes. I didn’t know what to do at the height of the moment, so I just sat there and offered her viable solutions, like long-distance troubleshooting company representatives do, which made me so angry at myself for not actually going home to get her some food. It was so frustrating and selfish of me. I didn’t know what to do with myself after the call, racked with self-hatred and disgust, I proceeded to Biology class.
I am under immense pressure, operating and studying under a scholarship grant’s grade standard. Last week, I found out that I am also subject (by scholarship contract) to work for 30 hours this semester at any university office of my choosing during my free periods. I started last Friday at the Environmental Science Department’s office. It was nice having new people around to talk and listen to, but at the end of the day everything comes down, crushing me into tiny little fragments of stress, fatigue, and overwhelming emotion. What makes this fine is that listening to Bowie and Queen’s “Under Pressure” is now extremely pleasurable and in itself rewarding, as I commute by way of jeepney to school every morning. Speaking of rewards, reading Lin Manuel Miranda’s tweets after a long day is like god smiling down at you from heaven. 
It’s exciting, seeing how much I’ve accomplished since I dropped out of school about a year ago. The sweet and slow anticipation of what is to come, and, of course, the immense anxiety of knowing that I have to put in work and deal with the stressors. There is no getting away from things now, a reality I’ve reconciled myself with. A friend once sent me a documentary named Game of Thrones: A Day in the Life, which is sort of a peek into their filming process, production and all that. Christopher Newman, one of the show’s producers, said something that stuck with me: “Game of Thrones is a big event and what you mustn’t do is get put off by the bigness of it. […] It must be like parachuting; don’t worry about the height you’re jumping, just make sure the parachute works.” It’s inspiring to me as I’m thinking about it now and applying it in the context of my present situation. But even with all this bigness, as always, remembering to take care of myself. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/7/dear-diary-july-8-2016/3/
Britney
I turn 17 today. I am losing 16 and coming too close for comfort to 18, which is two big things at once—too many at once, in terms of age. I am happy, but for different reasons than before, and I’m not completely sure how that makes me feel. A bit off. Everything isn’t right. But if I falter in moving forward square one will become my home base. 
I can do it. I can move forward. My dad tells me this in an email and it makes me burst into tears. Hours earlier a woman mistakenly called me an orphan, and I wish that I could show her all the difference that the slip of a word makes. I don’t know what I would do without my father, even though I don’t get to see him. It is strange to say these words when I grew up saying that I didn’t know what I’d do without my mother, when she was Mom and Dad and Mary and God and everything in one and I didn’t even know I had a father. 
I fear falling again, I fear the news reports, I fear politics and letting myself be eaten away at by another person and I fear the end of things that have just begun and I fear what I lack. It is easier to collect phobias than to stop holding my breath. I can do it. I can move forward. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/7/dear-diary-july-11-2016/3/
Alyson
Easy in
Easy out
Such convenience!
How something warm
Can melt into
Harden into
Something cold
Dressed up like
Something in between
The cinnamon fire
And the confusingly cold
Air between us
Purple purple purple
And red red
If you focus on the
Red
Long enough
The purple doesn’t exist. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/7/dear-diary-july-12-2016/3/
Simone
I know I have problems with self-control. Every attempt I’ve ever made at vegetarianism was cut short by a strip of bacon. I’m currently reading 16 different books. Anyone familiar with me knows my skills in the arena of procrastination are remarkable. I need to restrain. And I have been lately! My schedule, once chock-full of lunch dates, film screenings, and aimless driving involving lots of tank-filling, is now empty. I’ve spent the past three days in my room, reflecting. (Well, kind of. Mostly I was sleeping or binge-watching Newlyweds: Nick and Jessica.) Why is this? Let me explain.
Right now, my checking account is overdrawn, my piggy bank is empty, and my wallet is hidden in my sock drawer in an attempt to prevent any further damage. I have -0.67 US dollars to my name and I owe money, probably equivalent to a hundred or so, to a grand assortment of people. Luckily, the comforts of my middle-class background have granted me parents who are reluctant but able to give me money in times of need. But these past of two weeks of broke-ness, have burned even that bridge. Every time I ask for my money, my father’s eyes light up with excitement, and questions pour from his mouth. How much do I need? Exactly? And where will I spend it? And on what? It’s these sort of breaches of confidentiality that lead the public away from big banks. Sad to know even mom and pop shops have violated the terms of commerce.
My first paycheck from my summer job comes this Friday. I will make it. My inability to brunch, fulfill shoe urges, and eat ice cream will soon dissipate. Will I be careful with my newly acquired funds? Probably not. Should I? Definitely. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/7/dear-diary-july-13-2016/3/
Fatma
I feel like I’m finally maturing and becoming somewhat responsible. I’ve realized that the only way I’ll become happier is by changing my attitude. I’m going to stop being so pessimistic because life is of great value and, sadly—from what I’ve seen in the recent displays of police violence—it can needlessly come to an end extremely quickly.
I have so many reasons to be happy and I’m tired of being ungrateful. I also want to start praying regularly because I feel as if my connection with God is slightly weaker and I’m not happy about that. I just want to get good grades in school and read a lot and watch New Girl, without always complaining about something. 
I’m excited that the summer is finally here, so that I can recharge and go back to school in September with a fresh start on my attendance record and with a more positive attitude toward learning (I’m beginning to sound like one of my teachers). I love the warmth the sun gives me and the way my skin begins to glow into a darker shade. Sometimes, I feel like a chameleon with the way my skin colour changes depending on my surroundings. I feel that this is also how my personality traits work.
I still can’t stop thinking about the fact that I’m going to be in Year 10 (aka ninth grade). If I lived in the U.S., I would be a freshman. I’ve been contemplating dying my hair blonde. The only things stopping me are the price and the thought that it might not suit me. I always have the same type of craving to reinvent my “look” before the start of a new school year. I’m also thinking about getting contact lenses, too, but I want to try them out before I make a final decision. I wonder if it will change the way people treat me?
I have no doubt that the new school year will bring me times of annoyance, nor that I’ll have more anxiety attacks than I’ve had this year, but I know I’m there for one reason: to learn. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/7/dear-diary-july-14-2016/3/
Keianna
I’ve begun to realize the world doesn’t revolve around me. People walk by me and I force myself to remember that they have lives of their own. My father had a life before I was born. The crazy stories he tells me actually happened and that’s just…bizarre.
My mother is living her life without me right now, and it’s weird to think that’s she’s not just a figure who calls every so often. I have to say we’ve been getting along better. 
I don’t think children realize that their parents weren’t born to have them—well, maybe it’s just me who didn’t know that. It happened very fast. The sudden knowledge of this truth, this thing that clicked on that told me, “Your parents have lives, too. You weren’t born to be someone else’s sidekick. You’re going to have to do things by yourself.” 
Oh, ignorance, how I miss you. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/7/dear-diary-july-15-2016/3/
Cammy
I got into a fight with my dad and now he doesn’t want me to come back to his house. I know that I haven’t been wanting to stay over there anyway, so I’m really happy about that, but in some way it is a bit like getting disowned—and that’s not anything to feel particularly happy about. Still, it’s super liberating and I feel so good!!! 
I don’t like fighting but I figured if me and my dad got into it enough that I would make him not want me anymore. Which is a weird self-sabotage sort of thing but the point is I’m out of there!! And I don’t have to deal with that super toxic relationship anymore. It’s really weird because my sister still goes over there so I’ve spent the last couple of nights without her and I miss her a lot. I never thought I’d say that since me and my sister are so on again off again but I really miss her company. I didn’t realize how important it was for her to be around me. But I know that we would have had to start getting used to it because I’m leaving for college soon. I’d like to think that this is for the greater good and that she’s learning how to be alone. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/7/dear-diary-july-18-2016/3/
Steffany
Bearing witness to an elder gave me a newfound appreciation of growing up. We piled into the rare book room at the Strand, a quaint cozy place, think the library of a wealthy businessman with minimal time to read. Once off the elevator, there are breakfronts displaying coveted first editions: Huckleberry Finn, Mrs. Dalloway, etc. Titles that I skipped over on my summer reading list in favor of books like Bad Boy by Walter Dean Myers or Assata by Assata Shakur, neither of which are encased in glass. 
“Name?” I give my mother’s name, this experience being her gift to me. I’d come to hear Carrie Mae Weems discuss her seminal work, “The Kitchen Table Series,” a collection of black and white photos that star her as an nameless, yet all encompassing Black woman—the ones we engage with on a daily basis, the one that raised me—sitting at or hovering over a kitchen table, which is the centerpiece for the goings on of her life. A Black woman who’s also a mother tending to her daughter’s hair, comforting her man, a (probably shit-talking) spades player, and ultimately lover of self. A projector in the corner of the room rattles off about 50 images or so—a makeshift retrospective—a portrait of the artist about to grace us with her presence. 
My friend and I squeeze into two foldout chairs three rows back. I survey the room, shifting my weight from cheek to cheek, skeptical about the chair’s ability to hold me. I notice everyone in the room has some sort of writing instrument and notebook, and I feel underprepared, relying solely on my memory to record the night’s remarks. Speaking of remarks, a bookstore employee addresses us from a podium to introduce Adrienne Edwards. She’s a curator, whom I’m slightly familiar with because of the group exhibition she put together, Blackness in Abstraction, http://www.pacegallery.com/exhibitions/12802/blackness-in-abstraction which traces “the persistent presence of the color black in art, with a particular emphasis on monochromes, from the 1940s to today.”
Adrienne Edwards wears a white dress and beads around her neck, looking like an extra in the Lemonade video. Her dress connects her and Carrie Mae Weems’ influences to the present. It’s the kind of dress my great great aunt wore while giving out advice and performing remedies that included dealing with menstrual cramps to getting revenge on cheating husbands. A dress my Nana more than likely wore to her baptism in the little lake by the wooden shack that doubled as a place of worship. A version of that dress matched the crisp white frilly socks and bobos I wore to Memorial Baptist Church during my first communion, sneaking more than one wafer off the plate. 
After a reading of an essay from the preface of The Kitchen Table Series book, the reason we’d all converged in that room, Carrie Mae Weems, arrives full of gratitude, thank yous, and genuine tangible warmth. She thanked us all, she thanked her friends, and the man who helped the book come to fruition. I’ve been raised to respect my elders by default, but in that moment, what I felt transcended that. What I felt was a notch higher than admiration, yet Carrie Mae Weems still seemed to me very much human. Her humanity, along with her humility, instantly put me at ease. She was thanking me, when I was thankful to be in her presence. I turned to my friend and said, “That’s my Auntie Carrie!” Because she is. She seems like the auntie you could talk about sex and relationships, the one who doesn’t play pious and always gives smart, timely advice. 
Carrie Mae Weems started off by asking how many of us were artists. I didn’t raise my hand, I took too long to contemplate my status as an artist. Half the room had already come to the conclusion they were artists themselves. She discussed a variety of things with us. Such as, around the time the Kitchen Table Series was conceived, she wanted to expand feminist discourse to include Black women, who weren’t represented in the theory she was reading at the time. She spoke on feeling her emotions, those she couldn’t articulate, through Toni Morrison’s words, which reaffirmed for me the importance of writing and representation. That someone somewhere might feel my own writing so strongly was the source of much contemplation. She also talked about the decision to make herself the star of her own photo series, the flexibility she needed to execute the work put her in that position. Flexibility that included waking up at 4 AM to shoot the pictures. About 12 pictures per roll of film, which she developed herself, and the deep admiration she felt at the sight of her own work.
Adrienne Edwards and Carrie Mae Weems basked in a mutual love for one another and their contribution to the art world. (One as a creator, and one who uses theory to interrogate those creations and put them in context within a larger framework.) Then they extended that love outward into the audience. I felt it, as did the people who decided to ask questions. Only three were allowed; I didn’t get the opportunity to ask mine, which was: “What is the process of writing the text that coincides with her images?” Carrie the photographer is well known, but I wondered about Carrie the writer. Instead there were questions like, “How do you stay true to yourself as an artist?” One really drawn out statement masquerading as a question. Then, there was a remark as opposed to a question.
A woman all the way in the front commented on how Carrie empowered her to call herself something other than a singer/songwriter. A more complicated artsy sounding term, like a sonic messenger or something similar. My first impulse was to roll my eyes, less at her new broader identity, and more at the fact that she got to the microphone before I could. However, I refrained, and instead found myself congratulating her. Carrie Mae Weems’ Guggenheim retrospective empowered her to see the value in her voice, which I’m all for. I want to see Black women out here getting it. 
Finally, we get to the book signing portion. It was my friend, another girl, and me. We had our name printed on sticky notes so that Carrie Mae Weems would know how to spell them when our time came. I snuck a picture of her signing someone else’s book. In that photo, she seems in her element: joyous. My turn came and I thanked her for existing. I told her that I’d spent time typing “Black women photographers” in Google, looking to find myself represented in all art forms, both high and low. She seemed so grateful for my comment that I was taken aback, almost moved to tears. I smiled and smiled and continued to smile a bit more. And she returned the favor, while writing “for (redacted) from Carrie M. Weems” into my copy. She commented on how she was happy to see “young sisters” at her event. I enjoyed the visibility. She then wished me the best of luck with my “work” a vague term, but one that was applicable nonetheless. Adrienne was next. Carrie Mae Weems peeled back several pages, in search of a particular spot, and signed her name in a very experienced cursive, as if, she’d had practice autographing books, much in the way I do in the back of my journal. It was a surreal moment, quick, but not impersonal.
As I sauntered back toward the elevator, practically floating, I blurted out, “I can die happy now,” before correcting myself: “No. I have a LOT more things I want to do in life.” Assuring myself more than anything, saying it aloud in hopes of solidifying that feeling. I want to age, gracefully. Not just in appearance, either. I want carry with me into my old age a lasting body of work and peace of mind. Here this woman was discussing with us something she made 25 years ago, but that in Adrienne’s words, “transcended time.” That isn’t hyperbole, it does. The series itself is older than me and half my peers in the room, all of whom probably first engaged with it through Tumblr, in search of images that mirror our realities. 
To produce something everlasting? That requires living. And with lived experience comes age. I’m often so caught up in the idea that my accomplishments are more significant depending upon the age I am, which is a notion I haven’t completely rejected, but am slowly moving away from. As certain obstacles appear, I am getting a taste of what it’s like to watch time slip away, unable to produce much of anything because of unexpected circumstances. Circumstances that include mental exhaustion, death, just wanting to take a break. I wrestle with the fact that I’ve essentially been spending my summer catatonic. Clearly I am not moved enough to wake up before 1 PM. Life happens, sometimes. It’s unpredictable, and gets in the way of “work” (writing, podcasting, filmmaking, the other million things I wanna do) at any given moment.
When she wished me luck with my work, it was like she looked into my eyes and saw someone unsure but trying to figure it the fuck out. Or rather, that’s what I took from that moment, because that’s what I so needed at the time. An “I see you girl!” acknowledgement that I’m trying my hardest to close the gap between who I am and who I want to be. Like so many others before me, I’m winging it. Hoping for the best, knowing I’m talented, capable, and still not yet completely secure. So in that moment, I got some of what I needed to sustain me for a little while longer. 
In the back of my mind, there still lingers vision of a future me, equal parts attainable and unattainable. Versions of myself a little further into adulthood, past the phase of professional uncertainty, wiser, filled to the brim with stories. I’ll sit in a cozy room similar to the one in the Strand, filling out a beautiful dress, laid baby hair, adjusting my glasses. As I sit, I’ll begin rattling off my lived experiences, speaking in a cadence that shows I’m an experienced public speaker. A hand wraps around a microphone with rings on each finger from the world over, the other hand used to add emphasis to the points I’m making, Cartier bracelets adorning my very established wrists. I’m both asking and answering questions like the media personality/renaissance woman/bad bitch I’ve worked so hard to be. The audience sits at my feet, completely engaged, laughing at my jokes. Not out of nervousness, but because I’m funny (duh), and they’re genuinely happy to be in my presence. At least, that’s just one of many images I conjured up while clutching the book to my chest on the train ride home. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/7/dear-diary-july-19-2016/3/
Lilly
In a stunning twist—no pun intended—I left work yesterday with a sprained wrist and two weeks’ notice of my departure given to my boss. I did it. Two weeks, maybe 80 hours, maximum, then I’m done. I’ll have three weeks to finally make something out of this summer before I leave for school.
I guess I just…cracked. One day I was chugging along OK and then, one 10-hour shift later, I was ready to do anything to seal the deal on my last day. It had its price. My brother is in town this weekend but I’m working double open-to-close shifts. I made a friend at the farmers market stand I work at on Saturdays, but I won’t see her for two weeks—how much food will it take to get back into her good graces?! And then, of course, there’s the wrist. But really, what’s another tweaked joint to bandage into submission? If food is the way to my friend’s heart, I can always claim to be buying her forgiveness when I share my donut from the stand across the way. And speaking of food, I might not be seeing all that much of my brother, but I’ll still be coming home at the end of the day to sit down across from him at the dinner table.
It’s kind of amazing, having a goal in mind, an end visible on the horizon. The past couple of weeks I’ve talked about feeling lost and I don’t think that is completely gone, but it’s like I’ve been handed a map. Now I know my way out; I just have to get there.
When my coworkers heard the news, some of them just went the polite route, asking me about my plans for school and whether I’d met my roommate yet (leaving late August and no). The guy I’m closest to and our resident Pokemon Go enthusiast told me to give him a call if I ever needed a reference for a campus job. And a woman who had gotten to work long before I did today and would leave long after I went home managed to put on a smile long enough to tell me, genuinely, that she’d miss me. So maybe I haven’t done too badly for myself after all. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/7/dear-diary-july-20-2016/3/
Cammy
I had a dream about my teeth falling out. Me being the person that I am, I know that that’s a super symbolic dream and I got really nervous and eventually looked it up. One of my friends said that it meant that someone I know is gonna die, which REALLY freaked me out. Another person said that it could signal new beginnings. Something I read simply said I probably need to go to the dentist. Even though my mind assumed the extreme worst, I tried to force myself to believe that I did just need to go to the dentist. After all, my wisdom teeth have been growing in badly and my bottom teeth are super crowded now, that also really scares me, by the way, because everyone thinks I have nice teeth and I don’t want to end up getting braces to fix the fact that my bottom front tooth is disappearing behind the rest of the row.
Anyways, there I was trying to forget that someone I know could die by convincing myself my teeth are fucked up, and I haven’t even considered any new beginnings. It turns out that I was completely wrong, because the weirdest possible thing that could have happened happened. I’ve mentioned in other entries how much I hate my stepdad, like truly, truly hate him, so it’s really shocking to me now that we’re friends now. 
I was up late cramming for the retake of my chemistry final the following day, and I’m no good at science so I wasn’t getting very far. My stepdad, however, is really good at chemistry, which is SO convenient isn’t it??? He ended up staying up and teaching me how to balance equations, and it helped so much that I got an 100 percent on my makeup exam. Isn’t that cool??? And now me and him and my sister are planning what to do for my mom for her birthday. 
I think this experience was important for me, because I really need to learn to be more optimistic. I automatically assumed the worst from my dream, yet I ended up having one of the best possible outcomes. I just don’t like getting my hopes up for things and then being disappointed. But being disappointed isn’t the worst thing in the world—especially if you’re optimistic. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/7/dear-diary-july-21-2016/3/
Kiana
I go to sleep at night, spent and tired. I wake up in the morning still restless, with a heart that yearns for the affection of another person.
Why am I conditioned to think that the only way to find absolute emotional stability or happiness is through another person’s care, affection, and love? Why am I still adhering to this idea even though I know it’s false? Why am I hurting myself with these thoughts? How many times do I have to repeat that my happiness doesn’t depend solely on another person? Why am I not giving myself enough love—has my attempt at self-care failed, or been in vain? God.
Am I aware that I have lived for 19 years in this sometimes-I’d-like-to-think-godforsaken world already without the direct emotional aid of another human? Am I aware that, right now, blood is trickling and flowing all through my body and that I am responsible for this? Am I aware that my lungs are expanding constantly, rhythmically, so I can move my hands, use my brain, continue typing these words? Am I grateful for this? How commonplace this may sound, but also terrifying. These things are important, and I’m taking them for granted. Every day.
The world is in so much pain and this pain I’m feeling would never equal the world’s collective hurt, but I am here, we are all here. Who else will right (and write) the wrongs? Who else will point out injustices and inequalities? Who but us?
Have I ever told you about my biology laboratory group mates? They are the best; a ray of sunshine to my Tuesday and Thursday afternoons. We can sit for for hours on end to do lab work, but we also sit down to talk about our interests, back and forth, all six of us. We talk about the books we’re reading, music we’re listening to, professors we’re currently dreading, to infinity. My god, these people. These are individuals whose specific qualities are endearing, which I find redeeming, despite what is an apparent unleashing of evil in the world right now. Especially so when I’m having a rough time getting myself together, getting hold of my extreme feelings of unworthiness regarding validation via amorous affairs. I think of them and my heart glows.
I need to remember, to remind myself constantly that people are the redeeming facet of this sometimes sickening world. There will always be people who lighten the load by being the vulnerable, sloppy, imperfect, multifaceted humans that they are. How dare I project angst and contempt toward people on my not-so-good days when, really, we are natural-born redeemers. Jesuses in the flesh! ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/7/dear-diary-july-22-2016/3/
Alyson
My stomach
Wanted to cry
The skies did
And I thank
God
That you were
An experiment
Even under navy water
Can I scratch my neck
To make you feel good?
I drank some amount
And I crawled from my nose
Lilac
And the drops assembled
Into the flower
As the flower
Just as I had prophesized
Underneath
The same water
That had sponsored
This spectacular display. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/7/dear-diary-july-25-2016/3/
Simone
I don’t like to think or talk or write about Donald Trump because I think the complaints and op-eds and musings and ponderings by people like me are the only reason he’s gotten this far. But please excuse me, because I’m going to break my own rule.
At camp this week, we did a treacherous hike. It was hot and sticky, and all uphill. The kids were whining and crying and injuring themselves. To distract from the many nuisances of being in the Great Outdoors, I’ve found that conversation is useful. Often this conversation revolves around zeitgeist-y topics in pop culture. Being that this past week held the Republican National Convention, Melania Trump’s plagiarized speech came up. Surprisingly, I entered a conversation about artistic and academic integrity, white privilege, and sexism with my campers. It was at this point that a girl much younger than I, but far more politically articulate and aware, entered the realm of discussion. Abruptly, she said she didn’t care about what Melania had or hadn’t repeated from Michelle, because it seemed to her like a mere distraction. She asked if any of us had heard of anything else from the convention. No one could name anything really. Cable news had spent the last few days repeating synced clips from both speeches, and little else. She told us we should know about the kind of things that were said and proposed at the convention. She said we would be very scared. Then someone brought up Pokemon Go and that was that.
On Facebook this morning, I found a highlight reel of the RNC shared by one of my friends and watched it. There was montage of the radio show host Alex Jones screaming about black nationalism outside the convention center, women denouncing Hillary for her inability to “keep her husband pleased,” Nazi salutes and verbal displays of anti-semitism, and passersby suggesting we reintroduce “much more than water-boarding.” I’d always known Donald Trump was a hatemonger, but I hadn’t fully acknowledged the hate he mongered was so violent and passionate and ugly and bold. In my principle-based ignorance of Trump, I haven’t been properly conditioned to his new conservative persona. It wasn’t until I saw his most vocal supporters—supported by the volume of their allies—riled up by signs and excited by the presence of their favorite politicians, that I became anything more than annoyed by his campaign. Now I’m afraid. I was reminded of how politically aware this girl much younger than I, was. 
A few nights ago, I dreamt that I encountered a group of undocumented people protesting Donald Trump outside a party in New York City. I approached them out of respect, wanting to know what I could do as an ally. I began speaking to one of the protesters in the group who seemed to be helping lead the demonstration. Very suddenly and very personally, he revealed to me that he, along with a number of the people in that very crowd, and most conservative talk-radio hosts, and Trump himself, had been paid by a collective organization of the country’s top fast-food restaurants. Trump’s entire campaign, and the subsequent disruption of our country’s democratic system, was a ploy. The fast-food companies wanted to distract us from some new, horrible chemical they were poisoning our food with. I wish that were the truth. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/7/dear-diary-july-26-2016/3/
Cammy
I’m feeling really happy because I feel like I belong!!! I stopped being close with someone I called my best friend for the past two or three years, and going through that whole sort of break up process was weird. You know when you just no longer feel the same way about someone? I’ve been really unsure about whether I’m a bad person for not feeling the same, but I understand that people just grow apart. Not being so close with her has been a great opportunity to become friends with these girls I’ve known since ninth grade. I have a lot more in common with them; we really connect and I feel like we have a lot to offer each other. 
I’m also really excited for school to start up, because over the summer I’ve gained a lot of confidence!!! There are some people who have wronged me, which caused me to feel insecure, as though I couldn’t stand up for myself. Now, though, I think I can and that feels really great!!! I’m tired of not saying what’s on my mind, and now that I’m in a much better social situation, I have the support I need to be good to myself. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/7/dear-diary-july-27-2016/3/
Marah
People differ in their behavior, opinions and worldviews—and this is why societies differ from each other. We see, for example, that people living in rural areas are different from those living in urban areas. Beyond that, even though your neighbors might live in the same environment and the same community you do, and even if they follow the same social conventions you follow, it can sometimes seem that they live on a different planet. This means that individual differences are stronger than societal norms.
The environment in which I grew up is very different from the one my husband, Karam, experienced as a child. I had a loving family that included my wonderful parents and my great-grandparents. The love and harmony in which I lived strengthened my sense of family bonds—and in my current life, I miss my family’s traditions, like our gatherings and celebrations.
Despite the fact that we come from the same country, Karam grew up in an unstable family environment. His father and his mother were in constant conflict. While his father was highly educated, his mother did not possess the qualities to keep her family intact. This might be because she was very young when she married and she was uneducated. For this reason, Karam is not very close to his family.
His relationship with his mother is complex, and he sometimes blames her for his unhappy childhood and adolescence. The constant disputes between his parents were perhaps due to that educational gap. I am not sure of the reasons, but I know that his past environment still affects him today. The lack of love and stability in his childhood has made him determined to give his baby the best he can offer. He also openly asks me to follow in my mother’s steps, not his mother’s.
However, the lack of love during his childhood affects our relationship and sometimes puts us in challenging situations. He does not like it when I challenge his opinions, and he gets upset with things I do that I see as my natural rights. I always try to deal with these challenges wisely, because I know that he has a great heart.
If these differences exist within our society, how vast are differences between the East and the West? Day after day, I keep discovering how big the differences are. But are people different? Or have different traditions created this gap? Although men and women are equal in the East, and although women work just like men, men are the ones in charge of providing for the family financially. However, here in Europe, they both carry the same responsibility when it comes to financially providing for the family.
People here are very frank. If they like someone, they make it clear; and if they don’t, they make that clear, too, which makes relationships transparent. In the East, on the other hand, society is built on compliments and consideration. People have to be considerate of each other’s feelings and circumstances, even when they do not want to be, which puts a lot of pressure on people. Social life here is limited. Most people spend their weekends at home, while in the Arab world people spend their days off outdoors or visiting friends and family.
Here, people want to eat healthy food, while all we in the East care about is how our food tastes. We spend a whole day preparing a dish that we consume in minutes. For this reason, elderly people here are healthier than those in our countries. We do not pay much attention to saving, but here money is treated with a great deal of concern.
Freedom here has no limits, as long as it does not affect others, while where I come from freedom is limited. As a woman from a society with its own traditions, conventions and religious standards, I do prefer some limitations on freedom. I believe that some limitations can sometimes reduce problems and prevent mistakes. Because of the many differences between Switzerland and Syria, I am not fully integrated within European society yet.
I believe that in some aspects, European society is better, but in others it is not. Each society has its own characteristics. I sometimes wish we could merge the two—that could make a balanced civilization. Although I know my dream is impossible, dreams provide me with strength and hope—not because they keep me away from reality, but because they provide me with some sense that the world can be a better place in the future.
***
With the differences between the two societies and the changes that have happened to my own body because of my pregnancy, I am shifting. I have gained some weight, my clothes don’t fit me anymore, and my features have changed a little. When I look in the mirror, I see a different-looking person, but I do know that I will go back to the way I looked before.
These changes to the way I look seem to make my husband very loving and protective. He cares a lot for me, and he does not even want me to do the easiest of housework. I love and enjoy his attention, and sometimes I think I pretend to be a little tired in order to get more of his attention, but I try to stop myself because I don’t want to act like a little child anymore. I want to be a real partner, and I have put a lot of effort into convincing him that I am a grown-up, that I am capable of making decisions and taking responsibility inside and outside of the house.
He understands the emotional and physical changes that I am going through, and he keeps encouraging me to continue with my studies. I think he encourages me because he also cares about his baby. He appreciates and values the importance of educated mothers. Despite the differences between us and his family, which can make life hard sometimes, we do get along very well. Differences are not bad, they provide our lives with texture and flavor. If all people were the same, life would be boring and we might have even more problems. This is what I believe for now, although my opinion, like everything else, could change with time. ♦
Marah’s diary is produced in collaboration with Syria Deeply, a digital news outlet covering the Syrian crisis. It has been translated from Arabic.
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/7/dear-diary-july-28-2016/3/
Kiana
Remember your friends
how they laugh and smirk,
their tendency to write Love letters
on the back of grocery store receipts
when they’re put to spell
by Love’s spasm.
Remember your friends
your mirrors and lifelines,
how they shriek, thunderous,
their voices raging,
their voices ringing,
their voices with mouths
and something important to say;
how inclined they are
to turn into a storm,
destructive, uproarious,
in the throes of Love.
But also remember
how they pulled themselves out
like good seeds
scattered on bad ground;
how they won clashes of the heart
in the battlefields of men
when all the world ever did was tell them,
“You can’t fight; you’re just a sweetheart.”
Remember
how you held them,
distant with your eyes.
Remember
how they held you,
soft and close,
the closest you’ll ever get
to being mothered.
Remember your friends,
your life pals,
credos of your heart—
Love them, keep them in your veins. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/7/dear-diary-july-29-2016/3/
Keianna
When you’re younger it’s easy to change passions quickly. Let me use a tangible object and relatable scenario to explain: When you were younger and playing with other children, your interest in a toy might be heightened by seeing your playmate pick it up. Suddenly, the toys around you seem less-than. If you’re anything like I was, you’ll probably fight with your playmate for it. If, by any chance, you got it, you’d cherish it for a while, but soon it’d be forgotten. 
To be fair, we seem to grow out of that pattern. As we grow up, things hold our attention for longer and we can decide what we are passionate about and stick with it. That doesn’t mean we don’t all change in many ways. 
I’ve been looking back at myself and the “phases” that I’ve been through. It’s comforting to realize that, as I’ve progressed I’ve left behind some of my bad habits. It’s even more comforting that I’ve kept some of what I consider my best qualities.
In kindergarten, we were asked to write how we think we’d be at 20 years old. I bet I thought I’d be famous. It’s funny how our goals change with us, often becoming more realistic. Instead of dreaming of being a millionaire I’m dreaming of a good night’s sleep. Well, maybe dreaming isn’t the appropriate word to use when talking about my lack of sleep. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-1-2016/3/
Lilly
Let’s play two truths and a lie. I’ll go first: I skipped a grade in middle school. I’ve flown a plane. I’m an FC Barcelona fan.
Until this morning, there would have been two lies in that mix. I did skip a grade in middle school. But I cheered for Real Madrid when they won the UEFA Champions League this weekend. And this morning, the guy who took me up in his Piper J-3 Cub said, ”Hey, you want to fly this thing solo for a couple minutes?” And what can you say to that except, “Yes, absolutely”?
I’m only one week in and it’s already been an interesting summer. Everyone else is still going to graduation parties and end-of-year celebrations, but I’ve had neither the time—I’m working several days a week now—nor the interest—why drag out the school year any longer than we have to? We’re done. It’s really sinking in now. My diploma is on the shelf, my final transcript has been sent to my college, the only schedule I’m on is the one taped up on the wall in the back room next to the freezer. When people ask me when I’m leaving for school, there’s a definite answer, and it’s only three months away. These things are real and they are happening now.
I guess I don’t want to fall into the trap of living in the past. Maybe some people would say that I’m just forcing myself toward my future, but the truth is that I’ve had my eyes set forward for years now. My flight today, short as it was, made me eligible for a free aviation course and private flying lesson, with a chance to get my license after logging enough hours—just like you would for a driver’s license. Why not make that my next adventure? I’ve always wanted to be able to fly. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-2-2016/3/
Britney
The storm splits the heat like mango halves, letting it settle throughout the air around me instead of concentrating on the outskirts of my body. I am thinking about Law. Not law, but Anne Carson’s Law in Glass, Irony and God. I have my own Law, someone who is former and only escapes when I start a new poem or look too deeply into myself. I never got a resolution. My five years’ cry for reparations. New thought—I don’t want to be here, I don’t want to move, I don’t want any part in the consumption cycle. Scratch that one. It’s on the blacklist. 
The room is empty around my mattress. I’ve got it all. It took me two hours to get here yesterday and I cried in the middle of the street on my board because it was dark enough. I have returned to a place where I am not at home because I have listened too much to myself and my stillborn confessions and my daily atrophy. 
June is a whole year, waiting for my sharp turn around the corner so it can pounce. I admire the way it bleeds me because I could never have that kind of predatory instinct. 
I turn 17 next month, and my favorite game is seeing how far I have come from starting these diaries at 13 during the peak of middle school to now, the long jump before college. It’s an unbelievable distance. I practice running it in my mind during moments like these, when the temptation to stop the climb upward is tugging at my waist, tied rope in hand. It never chases me the way I expect it to. I’ve learned how to escape too easily. I wonder when I will be entirely grateful for this footing, this absence of slips. I’m learning. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-3-2016/3/
Thahabu
This week has been filled with positive energy. 
I went to the beach with my friends. The current made it a little cold so we ended up lying out on the sand together instead of swimming, but it was a great way to savor one of the first hot days of the year. I tend to blame myself for things beyond my control, so I kept apologizing for it being too cold to go in the water as if I control the weather. My friends thought I was being silly and told me to relax. 
The very next day I got to hang out with my new friend Karen and her friend Alicia. I had only met Karen once before through social justice work, we bonded as we walked around downtown New York. It’s always nice to talk and befriend other black women in social justice communities because there are so many moments when I feel crazy for thinking a certain thing, or being fed up with something, and then they confirm that they feel the same way and assure me that I’m not crazy. I find comfort in these friendships. 
The three of us were all wearing tight dresses and sporting our beautiful afros. We received plenty of compliments, but we were also being harassed on every block we walked on. A man stared at us in a Starbucks and started dancing to impress us, I guess. Another hovered his hands over us and said “I love this, I love ittt.” We joked about how people love to pretend they love black girls with natural hair…as long as they’re “afrocentric.” It’s refreshing to be around people who know what’s going on and understand what we’re up against, but also want to have fun and joke around, too. Those friendships tend to be the most healing. 
There are so many people who try to limit my complexity and refuse to see me as a multifaceted, dynamic being because I am a young black girl. They treat me like I’m stupid, and try to police the way I react to being disrespected. Telling me that if I want to avoid being offended I should respond in a nicer way, and, if I don’t I deserve to be met with further disrespect. And because I don’t like wasting my energy trying to explain myself I let them get away with it. Karen could relate and told me I’m right to be at one with my emotions and to not let anyone talk me out of them. I know who I am, and I’m going to own it.
I’m so thankful for the time that I had with Karen. It’s making me look forward to the summer as well as dorming in the city this fall so we can see each. We agreed it’s “gon’ be lit.” ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-6-2016/3/
Kiana
Dear Kiana’s existence,
Your worth is not aligned with your ability (or inability) to keep up. You don’t have to keep up, either, and whoever told you to “keep up because that’s how the world runs” is one big existential lie. Unlearn keeping up. Re-learn listening to yourself: your quips, your longings, your mind. Re-learn watching yourself: your quirks and your gestures.
I know it is so silly to write this, knowing how much of a stress-filled ball you are in every single waking moment, but seriously, let go of everyday annoyances that get at your mind because IT DOESN’T MATTER. What matters is you’re here now, no matter how hippie shamanic shit that may sound, and that you are breathing and existing.
There’s been so much “projection” and “compensation” going on with your friends, relatives, elders, loved ones, all of them. Knowing and seeing this in real, live action stresses you out, but you remember the importance of letting things run their course so you let them be. Letting them be means not letting them get to you with their boarded-up, neon-lit signs of Who You Should Be in their minds. Be calm, loosen your grip, let go.
Lastly, to Kiana’s physical existence: Thank you for taking care of yourself. For finding the littlest bit of time to stay hydrated and fed, despite the darkness lurking in your spacetime existence. It makes a huge difference, so thank you thank you thank you for holding up and powering through. I’m grateful.
Love,
Kiana ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-7-2016/3/
Keianna
When I was in seventh grade it felt like my entire middle school was against me. I know that sounds dramatic, and maybe it is, but that’s truly how I felt at age 12. I didn’t really have friends. I had people who would tolerate me being around them for lunchtime maybe once a week, but most of the time I was alone. I wouldn’t have minded my own company if people would have just left me alone.
I was an easy an easy target for the “the room is too quiet, let’s all gang up on someone until they cry” moments. Someone once suggested that I try hanging out with boys instead. Let’s just say they weren’t too keen on me being around. 
Without fail there would always be someone there to rip up my work right before it was supposed to be turned in. If I was ever feeling good about myself there would always be someone to tell me how gross I was. 
I eventually transferred to a different middle school and was more than relieved to get a fresh start. I had a lot of adventures and tribulations there too but I did feel like I belonged.
I love life and myself, and I’m so glad that I let those experiences build me into a stronger person. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-8-2016/3/
Alyson
I would have cried if it weren’t for being out of breath and already being covered in my body’s water (sweat). If I’d cried, it would be like white noise in the yoga room, white water on my body. I think I liked the idea, because then my pain about this would be “just another thing” rather than the foreground of the scene, the star of the show of my life. 
I got hit really hard when I saw him at graduation. When they opened the gates after the fireworks, I immediately set off to find Mitch. It seemed impossible to find him, and the anxiety that I’d felt all night was climbing. When I finally caught his golden head, I ran away from all the people I was with without a thought. I had this fear that in the next second, he would be gone. I realize now how psychologically telling that is. If I didn’t see him now, would I ever see him again? But three seconds later I was hugging him and maybe saying something but nothing groundbreaking because I just wanted to keep him there with me for as long as I could. My soul sibling. We just looked at each other for emotional years despite the momentum wrapped around us. I continued my search for him even though he was right there in front of me. I almost cried. He was born again on the other side of the wall of adulthood. Purer than ever. Everything in me was beating wildly in its cage. Me too, me too. 
I won’t always feel like time with them is locked away—property of the past—and can never happen again. This is just a symptom of change. If nothing is forever, then neither is this sting of being left behind. Soon, we will be doing everything we want, everything we couldn’t do before. It will be OK again. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-9-2016/3/
Thahabu
I received the warmest support and protection from fellow girls while at a BBQ party where Princess Nokia performed on Saturday. Princess Nokia is a gorgeous black and proud Puerto Rican woman who promotes girl power and solidarity in her music. Her songs are a variety of spiritual sonic bad bitchness that makes you believe you are The Most Excellent and Astounding Human Being on the Planet. I guess I was jumping and dancing super hard because in the middle of the set she invited me and other people in the crowd to come dance on stage with her and her friends. It was such an ebullient thrill to be among all these beautiful girls who felt the same fun-loving free energy I did. I left that set with so much inspiration bouncing around in my head.
As my friends and I sat recovering from her set, some other girls sat with us and chatted about school, money, and our dreams of traveling. The summer air became chilly as the sun began to set, and I remembered that I had packed a pair of leggings in my bag for a situation such as this. The only barrier keeping me away from optimal leg warmth was that I needed a place to change out of my shorts. The line to the bathroom was long, and I couldn’t just undress in front of everyone in the venue. Or at least that’s what I thought. One of the girls, who I now remember is named Francesca, offered to make a human fortress around me with her friends and mine, so I could change my pants without offending partygoers. They abandoned their lawn chairs to stand closely around me as I stepped in and out of my shorts and into my leggings. It was such a spontaneous and thoughtful act of kindness. It may seem silly but I was really depressed over the weekend, having those irrational anxious thoughts of I’m never going to accomplish anything! My friends secretly hate me! The world is such a terrible place filled with people who want to hurt me! and this one event reaffirmed my faith in the world. Shout out to you, Francesca. Thanks for helping a girl in need! ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-10-2016/3/
Keianna
I started making plans for the summer between junior and senior year when I was in the sixth grade. It has always been important to me that the last summer of my high school year be beyond amazing. And, although I assumed I’d have been a supermodel for at least three years by now, I still have high expectations. 
I also imagined this summer would be full of wild vacations to places like Italy and Bora Bora, and an amazing glo-up. While it’s safe to say I won’t be getting to Bora Bora, I did get my glo-up a bit early.
As I sit down to write a revised list of goals for this summer, I’m a bit more realistic. I want to make as many new friends as I can. As I’ve begun to shed the shy part of my being, I’m not as content with just hanging out in my room every night. I want to be more comfortable with doing things alone in public. If all goes according to plan, I’ll be going a ways away for school. I don’t want to be so dependent on my family or friends in public situations, so I’ll try going to museums and book stores by myself, just to get used to it. 
The last item on my not-so-long list is making the most of each day. Summers have come and gone where I did nothing and wondered why I hadn’t. I don’t want to look back this summer and feel annoyed with myself because I didn’t do as much as I could have. Even if I’m a bit shy of some of my goals, I promise that I’ll make sixth-grade-me proud and let you guys know how it’s all going. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-13-2016/3/
Marah
How much can people change? Can someone change into a completely different person? Is change a sign of weakness or strength?
These are the questions that rushed over me at the train station here in Switzerland when I randomly ran into a young man who comes from my city in Syria. He was our neighbor, and I have known him since we were little kids. We spent our childhood together, playing outside, careless and naive. He was raised in a similar environment to mine, and with the same customs and traditions.
He is three years older than me, and has been in Switzerland for four years. I did not recognize him when I first saw him, but he recognized me and introduced himself. I could not believe my eyes. He looked like a different person—everything about him was different: his clothes, the way he talked and even his haircut. He invited me and my friends to a nearby cafe. I agreed right away because I wanted to talk about my childhood, my city, and my people. He did not care about our country. He did not want to talk about anything that would remind him of Syria. He said that he didn’t ever want to go back, not even for a visit. He had no idea where his family was or how they were doing.
What happened to him? Were four years here enough to make him forget the 20 years he had spent in Syria? I was shocked. His goal in life was to collect as much money as possible. He does not want to have a family. How he has changed.
I am an advocate of change, but not to the point of losing the essence of one’s personality. I wondered whether I would be like him in a few years. In order to live here and truly integrate into my new society, I’m sure I will have to change a little. I will have to adopt some of this country’s customs. But I refuse to do away with my identity as an Arab and Eastern woman. Yes, I do have a Swiss ID card, but that does not mean that I will throw away my Syrian identity! 
I am honestly worried that I might become adrift and get lost in European society. I have to find a solution, but how? There must be a way to preserve my identity—if not for me, for my little baby who will be a true mix of the East and the West. His family will be Arab, but his school, his friends and his neighbors will all be Western.
I am not discriminating here. I know very well that there are great things in the West, but there are also things that I do not like—things that go against my principles. The East, similarly, has many traditions that I reject and consider dated. It will be very hard to raise my child here and preserve his roots. If all refugee children were to turn into Europeans, and completely forget about their culture, Syria would lose a huge amount. I know I shouldn’t be thinking about that, I should focus on myself and my little family, but maybe it’s possible to bring the two together. To find a happy medium and to raise my child with the best of the two cultures.
Some believe that having a child will force me to postpone my dreams. I don’t think that will happen. I need to realize my dreams in order to be able to provide my child with the support he needs. This is why I study so hard, it is for both of us—for me and for my child.
This baby motivates me to overcome all the challenges I face. There is a wonderful feeling that keeps growing with this baby—it is motherhood. I cannot wait to meet him…or her. In a week, the doctor will tell me whether the baby is a boy or a girl. I don’t have a preference, but my husband, Karam, dreams of a baby boy. Although I hate this Middle Eastern tradition of preferring boys over girls, I would like him to be happy. But I do believe that if we end up having a baby girl, Karam will fall for her. He will realize how precious it is to have a baby girl. Girls are like butterflies, they spread happiness and joy. This is what my father and my grandfather always told me. ♦
Marah’s diary is produced in collaboration with Syria Deeply, a digital news outlet covering the Syrian crisis. It has been translated from Arabic.
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-14-2016/3/
Thahabu
I started working at my local library last week. I worked there for two years during high school, and I thought it was only right that I go back for summer work. 
I’ve been visiting this library since my dad could push me in a stroller and cuddle me by the bookshelves while he read me Dr. Seuss books. As I grew older and developed depression, the library became a safe space, where I learned to log out of stress by delving into books about girls who didn’t fit in—girls like me. The librarians knew me by name and watched me grow up. They were like my third, fourth, and fifth grandmas; always interested in what I was reading and how I was doing in high school. 
There was also a library page who was a few years older than me, Steffie, whose style I admired. She wore goth-inspired outfits with tutus and crowns to work. We became friends, and one day during my sophomore year of high school she asked, “Why don’t you just work here? We need more pages!” That’s when I fell even more in love with the sanctuary I call a library. 
A year later, Steffie’s friend Christine began working here, and we became the “three musketeers” as the librarians called us. We were all short and used footstools to reach the top shelves. We also, unfortunately, bonded over the sexual harassment we’d sometimes face from male patrons, who would hound us to hang with them after our shift or beg for our number. Once, one of them even grabbed Christine, and we had to call them police. We had each others backs, though, and that’s what mattered. 
I realize I’d forgotten how much I loved the smell of thousands of old and new books sitting on wooden shelves. The quiet makes it so much easier to think, while I shift bookshelves and help patrons. I even get to work on the garden we have in the back. I don’t know what kind of plants there are back there but they’re all different shades of green. One is a very deep green, while others are very bright with hints of yellow—that one reminds me of a rave party. I pull the weeds and water the plants when asked. It’s just as peaceful as walking between the bookshelves. 
Speaking of shelves, I also tend to find my old favorite books when working. I thumb through the pages and remember the feeling its words gave me three, or five years ago, and if it isn’t busy, I might read 20 pages of a new book that seems interesting to me. I most recently borrowed Haruki Murakami’s 1Q84. 
I appreciate working at the library even more now that I’m older. It’s like returning to a familiar, settled happiness. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-15-2016/3/
Cammy
Summer usually feels like a relief, because I don’t have to worry about school. But this summer is probably the most high-stress ever. It’s my last summer of grade school and that is freaking me out. I’m gonna be a senior in the fall—a lot of my friends are already saying we’re seniors—and I’m really, really scared. I have to actually start growing up. I always figured I would have more time. 
I have to make sure I do really well with my grades this year, to pull up my GPA. Before, talking about colleges could be ridiculous and unreasonable. Shooting for Ivy League schools was anything anyone could do, but now that everyone understands that you can’t get into Harvard with a 2.5 GPA, it all just feels scrambled. 
I’m really nervous that I’m gonna end up like one of those adults who had to settle for a shitty job that they hate, all because I don’t care about my work enough now to “be somebody.” I want to go to a good school for film, but I’ve been wondering if I really even care about myself enough to get there. I don’t put a lot of effort into my grades and I always have teachers talking at me about all my “potential.” Then again, everything—my birth chart and mental illness included—says that I’ll only put effort into something if I truly care for it. And I feel like I care for a lot of things. I want to make sure my life ends up where it’s supposed be. I just don’t know how to get to what I want. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-16-2016/3/
Kiana
In high school, I mostly read Paulo Coelho’s work. There was this one quote that I have honestly kept out of mind, but which resurfaced just now. It’s something about having the wrong answers because we ask the wrong questions…I may be misremembering it.
Going back to college feels like a truckload of questions, after a year of thinking about whether or not to go back. I could have written down all the questions: the questions I’m forced by circumstance to ask; all the ironies I’m putting myself in, unwillingly, just to get by; all the molds I skedaddled right into. I want to remember them, just in case. I want to be reminded that I once was brave, although unconventional, brave nevertheless. I want to be reminded of this stage in my life when I made decisions for myself, which could potentially impact the future. I want to remember how good—but also equally terrifying—taking the reins, ruling your life, being accountable to yourself is.
But it’s fine, enough with the future-talk. What I’m here (and anxious) for is the present. I have read enough meditation and mindfulness books to know that the present isn’t a photocopy of the Garden of Eden. My present is more like The Garden of Earthly Delights, digitized and projected in my brain—a real, live social experiment, or whatever. It’s chaotic, but I’m here for it. I love it, but also genuinely loathe it. I am so ironic, which makes me a candidate for becoming a person who is full of shit. 
Yesterday there were some students talking about someone I know and admire out in the hallway, and because I’m a horrible person who has no self-respect, I continued to eavesdrop. They were talking about how this person uses pseudonyms during classes (“Like, why not just use your real name?! Duh BE IN THE REAL WORLD”), how this pseudonym-bearing “horrendous” human also happens to click with almost every professor in the hallway. UUUUUGHCK I have to stop ’cause I don’t wanna mess your psyches, my angels. Basically, they were spewing hate. The person they were talking about was someone who I think is hecking cool, and whom I admire so much. For me, every time I go out to the world I’m seeking an opportunity, or experience, or trigger to think less of myself. Cool.
Let me share with you my to-do list for the week (for the whole month, even), from Rainier Maria Rilke’s first letter in Letters to a Young Poet: “…to keep growing, silently and earnestly, through your whole development; you couldn’t disturb it any more violently than by looking outside and waiting for outside answers to questions that only your innermost feeling, in your quietest hour, can perhaps answer.”
This is it, you all. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-17-2016/3/
Fatma
I’m catching up with homework again. I don’t think there has ever been a point in my life when I have had everything done. I have a habit of leaving things to the last minute, if I don’t want to do them. 
My dreams have been extremely weird lately, to the point that I wake up and question whether I’m still asleep. I hate it. Visions of me meeting my favorite celebrities mixed with morbid flashbacks of my dead relatives. I wake up to my humid room, and seeing the Missy Elliott poster on my wall, I’m reassured that my dreams are over and that I’m now awake. I am safe.
I’ve been trying to be nice to myself. I’ve realized that I have to like myself in order to be happier, so I have started taking steps to quiet the constant, judg-y voice in my head. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-20-2016/3/
Marah
The arrival of the holy month of Ramadan renews many pains and reopens many wounds. This month used to be one filled with religious and popular traditions practiced in homes, markets, and mosques. The month of Ramadan was a time of love, family bonding, and gatherings. Our house was the place where the extended family gathered. My mother and my grandmother would prepare a variety of delicious food. Our dining table looked like a colorful painting. What I miss most is the tradition of exchanging special dishes with neighbors. My siblings and I used to take samples of what we had cooked to our neighbors and bring back whatever they had cooked. We loved this tradition. It felt like we were carrying presents to our neighbors. We were so innocent!
I have many good memories of this holy month. I used to go with my grandfather to the Umayyad mosque in Damascus for Friday prayers. After prayers, we’d walk around the historical market of al-Hamidiyya, and buy special Ramadan sweets, like date and grape syrup bread. We would also buy delicious Ramadan drinks like licorice and tamarind juice.
Our life before the crisis was simple and wonderful. This is why, even though I am far away from my home country, I cannot forget those days. I miss them like a little child misses her mother. I truly hope that one day I will be able to see my relatives, who are now scattered across many countries.
I sometimes voice this longing to my husband, Karam, hoping that we might break the fast with his parents. I wonder if being around his family might help, but how on earth would that fill the gap left by my own family?
I do not know why I am so devastated. Is it because of how far away I am from my home country? Is it because I miss my mother and my father? Is it because I cannot fulfill my religious duty and fast this year? My doctor prohibited me from fasting because of the pregnancy and told to me to take good care of my baby and myself, as I have not gained enough weight during my pregnancy.
Being pregnant does make me feel tired. My daily classes, as well as the commute, make things even more difficult. I have not mentioned this to Karam, because I worry that he might ask me to take precious days off, even though I am in a hurry to learn this language. I know the baby will occupy my time, so I want to learn as much as I can and as fast as I can before the baby arrives. I also really love going to school. It is the place where I see my friends and where we can talk, laugh, and enjoy our time. 
Despite our different languages and nationalities, my classmates and I have been able to get to know each other, and each other’s traditions. Sometimes we talk about our studies, and other times we talk about Switzerland and Swiss people. Most of my conversations with my friends are in English, since my German is not yet good enough for conversation. But sometimes, we switch to German so we can practice. The sentences we form are grammatically embarrassing, but it doesn’t matter, because we are learning and it’s normal that we make lots of mistakes. My biggest issue with German is that I often need time to remember the meanings of words, and I ask people to repeat what they say so many times. My teacher told me that this is completely normal for beginner students. My teacher is another reason why I love school. He believes that I am too young to be married and to have a child, so he keeps checking on me and provides me with all the resources I need. He is a great teacher and friend.
To be honest with you, my teacher’s care and support makes my husband jealous—and I love that. I sometimes even try to escalate his jealousy by tossing out some ambiguous, joking comments. Karam is very easy to make jealous; it’s like he is hardwired to be protective of his wife, sister, or any female relative. Karam’s jealousy does not bother me, because it does not prevent me from doing what I want, and it doesn’t cause trouble between us.
Despite being old-school sometimes, Karam is the one who keeps me balanced in this new place. I still cannot believe that I live here, and sometimes I wonder how I ended up here, how one decision can change a person’s entire life. Destiny leads us in directions we never imagined taking. 
Although I am far away, I never stop thinking of my people in Syria, especially during the holy month of Ramadan. I keep thinking of all of the families who fast, but cannot afford to buy enough food to break their fast. I pray for them, and I pray that one day I will be able to help them. ♦
Marah’s diary is produced in collaboration with Syria Deeply, a digital news outlet covering the Syrian crisis. It has been translated from Arabic.
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-21-2016/3/
Simone
Dear 12-year-old Momo,
I know exactly where you are right now. You’re in the hair-care aisle at the CVS Uptown, because Uptown is the coolest, with your mother. You’re squatting on the ground, looking through the bottom ledge of hair products. You’ve been here for a lengthy 15 minutes, but this is familiar. Every six weeks or so you buy a new hair product, it fails, and you incessantly search for a new one, only to repeat the cycle.
By now, you’ve tried nearly everything, to no avail. Promises of sleek, frizzless, shiny hair have all been empty. To make matters worse, your recent cut has resulted in tighter, far more unruly curls. These are tough times indeed.
To contend with your woes, you chock your wrists full of hair ties, different colors and thicknesses. Unlike hair products, they all do the same exact job, and well. They tie up your hair, temporarily concealing your dishwater blonde kinks and making you more comfortable in your daily life.
As you struggle, you see white girls with long, bouncy hair cascading down their backs, quickly swipe products off shelves. They don’t have to read ingredient lists to avoid silicones or sulfates or mineral oils. They don’t have to buy ever-shifting combinations of serums and leave-in conditioners and gels in effort to tame their manes. You are jealous of these girls, but more specifically, their simpler predicaments.
What is your predicament? Well, that’s complicated. Your predicament is finally having to wander to another section of the store, the ethnic hair care aisle. Another aisle in which you will search, only to be left disappointed.
It is not your face you see on the boxes on the shelves of this corridor. You have light skin, blue eyes, and blonde hair. But the fact is, your blonde hair is thick and kinky due to the DNA of your biological and brown-skinned mother, who happens to be growing very impatient of the time it’s taking you to find a goddamned conditioner.
In the ethnic hair care aisle, all products are either oils far too insoluble to make your hair anything but greasy, or lye-based relaxers. You’ve heard on the internet that black people who put lye in their hair hate themselves. But you’re not really sure about that, because, basically, every black person you’ve ever seen on TV had unnaturally straight hair. In school, you learned about Madam C.J. Walker, who apparently made a million dollars self-hating. It seems your kin is on to something. They’ve discovered how much easier it is to navigate the world with straight hair! You agree. A few aisles over lie the simple solutions: Conair, Revlon, and Remington. Of course, your mother refuses.
12-year-old Simone, I know you really love Lady Gaga, and the song on her new album called “Hair.” Now, at this age, you probably only think you like this song because of who sings it, but from a wiser, older perspective, I can tell you that this song is slowly brainwashing you. As Gaga sings the refrain, “I am my hair,” you think to yourself, Mother Monster is her hair: bold, edgy, and colorful. And I am my hair: messy, weird, and trapped, forever choosing between two identities.
In many years, you’ll refine your taste and stop listening to Lady Gaga. But one night, you’ll feel a wave of nostalgia and Google the lyrics to your old favorite song, “Hair.” With heightened analytical skills, you will come to realize that you ignored the most important part of the song. In the hook, she sings, “I’ve had enough / This is my prayer / That I’ll die living just as free as my hair.” She continues, wailing “I’m as free as my hair.” And in this moment, you realize you’ve been wrong this whole time.
Lady Gaga was never her hair, she was Lady Gaga. She had no static identity. You need not have one either. Your hair is a mix of textures. This stems from the fact that you are black and you are white. But most importantly, you are Simone. And while it is true and unfair that our country often makes its citizens select a single self, it is equally unrealistic, especially for you.
No aisle of products will ever suit your needs. You don’t need one to. Yes, with a lack of adequate product, your hair is going to look wild when it’s humid or after you go swimming, but your hair is beautiful, and beautifully yours alone, with its waves of the Ivory Coast and its reddish hues of Ireland and Scotland. It is wild in the best way. It starts conversation, and garners compliments from trendy French women at the A&P. Be proud of it. Be proud of you.
Little me, I can’t promise that one day you’ll be entirely proud of your hair. But I can tell you that you will one day embrace it. A combination of bullying regarding the size of your forehead and your mother’s constant playing of Corrine Bailey Rae’s “Put Your Records On” will result in you actually letting your hair down. Eventually, the hair ties on your wrists will serve as little more than accessories.
The journey will have its ups and downs. You’ll experience bouts of unabating straightening, and experiment with bleach. Ultimately, it will be for the best when you dye your locks back to their natural state upon comments comparing you to a young Justin Timberlake and ramen. It is in its most genuine state that you will find you like your hair best.
I promise that one day your time spent wandering the aisles of CVS will be significantly less woeful, and solely dedicated to wondering what diabetes socks are.
All the love,
17-year-old Momo ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-22-2016/3/
Keianna
This morning we went out to breakfast. I watched my sister over our eggs in a basket, and when she finally made eye contact with me we laughed. This entire trip has been going so well. We called Dad today and, although I miss him, I’m worried about how bored we will be when we get back home. Boredom leads to fighting.
No one else wanted to go on a day trip with us. It ended up being just my aunt and me in the car and I’m grateful for that. Driving around in the desert is something I’ve always loved. The only thing you can see are rocks all around. You can actually set your phone down; the lack of service really helps. 
We came across the International Banana Museum. Yeah it’s a thing and it’s amazing. For the entry price of $1 you’re allowed to roam the one room that holds the largest collection of banana memorabilia. If you do happen to find this gem try the frozen banana.
When we got back to the car it was only a 30 minute drive to the place we had set out for. Salvation Mountain is gorgeous. It’s more of a hill but it’s amazing nonetheless. It was painted by Leonard Knight over 30 years ago. The colorful mountain is adorned with scripture. If you’re close enough to visit it you really should, if not at least Google it because my descriptions can’t do it justice. Even if you aren’t religious it’s a sight to see. You can feel the passion of everyone who works there’s to keep it looking beautiful. 
I’m content with how lovely today was, but I can’t wait to go to sleep. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-23-2016/3/
Britney

We have found the crevice just outside of real time and I am determined to stay in it for as long as possible. It is dark out, but I know that if I get up to return to the bunker I won’t know how to deal with the loss. I am not used to feeling as if I could never spend enough time with another person; the only constant exception to this is—was—my mother.
***
My class was gone on a trip from Tuesday to Friday, racing around upstate New York to see colleges. I bled on the first day without having my period. This has only ever happened to me once or twice, and I can’t recall if it took place before or after my mom died. (This is my demarcation line for most unusual things.) I bought two tampons even though I knew the blood wouldn’t come again and locked myself in a steel box in the Cornell bathroom to hold them in my hand. 
I wrote five new poems in the same day on one of the bus rides, which happened so often that they became as natural as breaths. The writing was another rarity; I am not used to regurgitating that many words at once. I refused to talk to anyone I knew for reasons I still can’t explain and read Anne Sexton (I rolled my eyes at how cliché this sounds too, but it was my initiation, and a good one). I broke down more than once. Most of the time it was in the dead stillness of passing through Ithaca or Rochester with almost all of my classmates asleep and unmoving around me. There is nothing scarier than realizing that it’s too much to live but you cannot die and either path will have serious repercussions while you are sitting with 40 other kids. I didn’t think I would make it. I thought that it would finally be the moment where I shrieked with no end in sight and ran off of the bus and into the forest to deliberate my last minutes in a sweaty panic. In all honesty, this would have been a relief, like the last melatonin down before sleep. But I knew that it wasn’t right. If there is a time when it would be “right” for me to leave, it was not then and it is not now, or even close. I can appreciate this fact for now. 
***
I sit on the floor of my bunker and listen to the Virgin Suicides soundtrack at 4 AM after four hours of talking to the boy I like. The air feels strange because of the summer equinox. I notice a swollen bug bite that I didn’t notice earlier and suddenly it burns like my thigh has kissed a flame. My body is a battleground, except I must always watch from afar. Even the sidelines are too good for me—I’m not allowed to know what is happening. 
I turn 17 next month. It is strange to be witness to such a polar difference between years. When I turned 16 last year, I was still moving and I spent my birthday in Israel and my concept of intimacy had been warped into a series of hookups that I am still shaking off memories of. I am not the same at all. I am very pleased with the switch. My life will never be perfect and there is no fact I am more content with than this one, my golden rule. But this is the closest I have come. I ban all of my considerations of possible ends or screw-ups and just…exist. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-24-2016/3/
Kiana
I wonder how it feels to be liked by someone. I wonder what my world or life would be like if I had a Life Partner, someone I could romantically smother with all my weirdnesses. This may not be the highest form of human experience, or the absolute best feature of existence, and I’m sure there are other feelings I will someday feel that are far greater than romantic love, but seeing everyone around me WRITHING in the throes of young, teenage love makes me question my capability to be loved, my worth as a person even.
I want to be liked by someone. No, I need to be liked by someone. Badly.
Did you know there was a boy from my high school that I was so ENTRENCHED in? I may have incorporated anecdotal bits of it in some of my writing here. It was love unreturned, unrequited, whatever, and as much as I’d like to think I’m over it now, who am I kidding? There’s still this looming, throbbing hurt child in my heart wanting to just swallow whole chocolate-pieces of love from anyone. This I’d like to think of as a collateral to the unrequited situation—looking for love/accepting love for the sake of having love, even if this love manifests itself in hurtful, selfish, destructive ways.
(Side note: I found this great internet advice piece on unrequited love games. You’re gon’ like it!)
I foresee myself going down a spiraling path of love. More so, I’m afraid of myself for having no self-restraint, jumping from one love-pond to another. I know this to be true because just last week—in the middle of the first-school-week grind—I noticed a boy from one of my classes looking at me intently, a glare of the eyes which, if one is perceptive enough on social cues, denotes interest. I jumped on this boy’s interest right away, the needy and torn person that I am, and it was the worst thing to ever experience on the first week of a girl’s going back to college. It affected me prematurely, as if it was high school all over again, and ICK, THIS IS NOT THE KIND OF ATTENTION OR “LIKE” THAT I WANT, MOM.
I have affirmed and preached a whole of times that it’s not the end of mankind when you’re heartbroken or loveless, but I was just thinking the other night, what if I turn 20 without a single name to my “List of Lovers” and I turn out to be a bitter, miserable 20-something, but also career-driven and focused and goal-oriented, all at the same time? HOT MESS. I want to be that, honestly, but it’s also vital for me, at least, to experience back-and-forth love between the ages 16 and 19, because these are Formative Years and feeling feelings seems to be more interesting and Technicolor within this age bracket.
My god, I sound like a statistician with a minor concentration in Human Relationships. I’m castigating myself for feeling like this already, because I want to be focused in school and in my writing and in my general personhood, so CAN CUTE TEENAGE COUPLES JUST NOT? Some days, though, I feel as though I can totally live off on my own, on a secluded tropical island. But, for now, I’m this whiny teenager worrying about love life ’n’ stuff. Holy wow. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-27-2016/3/
Kiana
I am relearning how to be a person in the world. It’s different when you have been locked up for one year, without the company of young people your age. It’s weird when, for a year, you have been with adults who only care about more time, money, and affection.
I am relearning how to walk in my body. It’s different now that I am going to school every day and being looked at by people my age; people who, like me, are enormously conscious of how they look and are perceived.
Claiming sovereignty over the mind and body is hard, especially when you have been trampled on by the world for being too loud, too volatile, too “extreme for an Asian girl.” At school, I get stared at for rebutting a male professor’s thoughts on rape. Why is it that when a young woman steps up to speak, she is covertly ridiculed by the audience, by fellow women even, by people who are her age, by people who may have experienced injustice in their own lives? I find it so unfair that men are lauded for speaking and doing academic studies on issues about which they have not an inkling of firsthand experience. 
I can’t wait to see this world tremble as rightful voices claim the podium to speak. I can’t wait to be there, a spectator in a sea of people. I can’t wait for us to claim the conversation that is rightfully ours. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-28-2016/3/
Steffany
I’m coasting by on a weird mixture of stress and relief. I had a sit down with a mentor of mine, and walked away with a newfound sense of self and affirmation that the things that matter to me are important. I was validated by great food, even greater company, and edges that managed to lay in 80 degree weather. As my mother put it: I’m at a very fragile place in my life. She is often right. I ping pong between mounting stress, defeat, and realizing just who the fuck I am. Even with high confidence on my side, now more than ever, I need a support system that genuinely wants to see me win. And yet at the worst of times, I am in the midst of a case of the fake people. It’s tough to let go of a friendship that you’ve had since pre-K, but something has to give. If someone’s always waiting in the wings to tear down whatever I have going on because they feel threatened, that isn’t real friendship. 
I am such a caring person, and I love people so much. I want them to be their best selves. So I’m frustrated that someone who refers to me as their friend wouldn’t want the same for me. I was in denial for a long time, as in, “oh they’re going through something right now, hence the negative energy.” Not realizing the person I was sharing my hopes and dreams with was secretly gazing upon me with evil eye. Secretly willing herself into my good graces so she could convince me not to do things under the guise of “advice.” Girl, bye. I’ll side step the specifics of our mini argument this time. It isn’t relevant. What is relevant is that we’re moving in two completely different directions. I’m not going to engage in false modesty, I believe people can see that I’m that bitch. 
I puff out my chest and say things like, “I’m li’l Oprah” because I truly fucking believe that. I believe it so deeply that other people do, too. As they should, duh. I can do anything I put my mind to. As time goes on, I’m narrowing my focus a little more. I’m also having fun. Fiddling with my camera, making beats, trying to mix Skepta into MIA (it’s tough!) and just LIVING. It’s stifling, you know, being unable to make a move or dream out loud without some unsolicited advice. It’s bigger than just her, but when it comes to making a change, she’s where I’m going to start.
After my first year, I’ve landed back in my hometown with people who are draining me. I’m exhausted. Seeing an old high school friend who is upset I don’t have time for her, and who wants me to be her therapist now—NAH. I don’t have time for it. I won’t do it anymore. I have to restore order to my life. I’m on another path. I am going to will the life I want for myself into existence, and it doesn’t include not one of these people!
People who have slandered me up and down Facebook are trying to get back into my life, and I flat out refuse. They hit me up about who they think I know or how I can help them. I tell them, “I don’t think you deserve my conversation.” It’s so liberating. If I saw them on the street, I wouldn’t spit in their direction. You can’t pay people that are so invested in your failure any mind. When they see you aren’t failing, when they think you can put them on, they try to come back. You can’t let them. I won’t let them. I’m finally getting a true sense of who I am and the power I have, and that feels so great. I’m a five star chick. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-29-2016/3/
Alyson
i. Wind combed through my eyelashes, usually stiffened by mascara and therefore unable to be so lovingly cared for.
ii. When I was young, I thought that writing well revolved around sounding as pretentious as possible. I got really good at it, too. I suppose that now, in 2016, calling out your own pretentious habits is the new pretentious. Welcome back to the starting point of this now full circle.
iii. We left the house with the door open. I wasn’t going to close it and I was so relieved when you didn’t either. Same page in the same enchanting book. Bought new. I have very selective taste in books.
iv. All the people in New York City are a blanket. I want to live with them around me. I want the blanket that doesn’t shrivel from your body even when you tell it to.
v. My sketchbook got damp today and my heart is warped as the few beginning and ending pages. I always think sketchbooks are thicker with meaning when you can tell it took a journey to finish them. I still wish I had done a better job. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-30-2016/3/
Fatma
Cherry Bomb. Chur Bum. Che-rr-y Bo-mb. I love the way the title of Tyler the Creators’s fourth album rolls off of my tongue. I’ve listened to most of the songs, but I still haven’t bought it yet. This is due to the fact that although my sister is fairly chill with explicit content, she was very passionate about me not listening to this album. But I guess she has realized that I have already listened to 90 percent of the songs, and that I’m becoming more mature. 
I’m really glad that my sister is starting to trust me more. She is the only person who keeps me wanting to try harder in every situation that I’m in. She’s so dedicated. She’s giving me an hour math lessons after school, because I did really badly in my most recent math test. I’m so grateful to have her in my life. Plus, she showed me Seinfeld, which has to be one of the funniest shows I have ever seen. My sister understood how much I loved Tyler’s album—she even gave me her poster. Posters mean a lot to me because they make me feel close to the people I look up to. In my room I have a poster of Missy Elliott (the woman with my idea of ideal confidence in herself), Destiny’s Child (the true definition of survivors), Mac DeMarco (the reminder to be kind and relaxed) and now my new addition: the Cherry Bomb poster. 
This poster reminds me that if I try hard enough, anything is possible. It is stored deep in my heart because I have spent most of my teenage life trying to prove to my parents that I can have a job that I love, and thanks to Rookie, they’re starting to be more supportive of my creative endeavours. The Cherry Bomb poster gives me hope in that I’ll be able to live my life as an adult with positivity and fun. 
I think trying to take part in more of my hobbies—listening to and collecting music—has made me happier. Also, if you were wondering, the self-love journey is going well. I’m in the process of trying to forget the hate and prejudice that I have been programmed to feel towards myself as a Muslim and a person of color, and I’m trying to learn to love myself and my curly hair and my skin color and my culture that I was forced to forget because I had to assimilate into English culture. Things are going quite well for me at the moment. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-1-2016/3/
Lilly
Let’s play two truths and a lie. I’ll go first: I skipped a grade in middle school. I’ve flown a plane. I’m an FC Barcelona fan.
Until this morning, there would have been two lies in that mix. I did skip a grade in middle school. But I cheered for Real Madrid when they won the UEFA Champions League this weekend. And this morning, the guy who took me up in his Piper J-3 Cub said, ”Hey, you want to fly this thing solo for a couple minutes?” And what can you say to that except, “Yes, absolutely”?
I’m only one week in and it’s already been an interesting summer. Everyone else is still going to graduation parties and end-of-year celebrations, but I’ve had neither the time—I’m working several days a week now—nor the interest—why drag out the school year any longer than we have to? We’re done. It’s really sinking in now. My diploma is on the shelf, my final transcript has been sent to my college, the only schedule I’m on is the one taped up on the wall in the back room next to the freezer. When people ask me when I’m leaving for school, there’s a definite answer, and it’s only three months away. These things are real and they are happening now.
I guess I don’t want to fall into the trap of living in the past. Maybe some people would say that I’m just forcing myself toward my future, but the truth is that I’ve had my eyes set forward for years now. My flight today, short as it was, made me eligible for a free aviation course and private flying lesson, with a chance to get my license after logging enough hours—just like you would for a driver’s license. Why not make that my next adventure? I’ve always wanted to be able to fly. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-2-2016/3/
Britney
The storm splits the heat like mango halves, letting it settle throughout the air around me instead of concentrating on the outskirts of my body. I am thinking about Law. Not law, but Anne Carson’s Law in Glass, Irony and God. I have my own Law, someone who is former and only escapes when I start a new poem or look too deeply into myself. I never got a resolution. My five years’ cry for reparations. New thought—I don’t want to be here, I don’t want to move, I don’t want any part in the consumption cycle. Scratch that one. It’s on the blacklist. 
The room is empty around my mattress. I’ve got it all. It took me two hours to get here yesterday and I cried in the middle of the street on my board because it was dark enough. I have returned to a place where I am not at home because I have listened too much to myself and my stillborn confessions and my daily atrophy. 
June is a whole year, waiting for my sharp turn around the corner so it can pounce. I admire the way it bleeds me because I could never have that kind of predatory instinct. 
I turn 17 next month, and my favorite game is seeing how far I have come from starting these diaries at 13 during the peak of middle school to now, the long jump before college. It’s an unbelievable distance. I practice running it in my mind during moments like these, when the temptation to stop the climb upward is tugging at my waist, tied rope in hand. It never chases me the way I expect it to. I’ve learned how to escape too easily. I wonder when I will be entirely grateful for this footing, this absence of slips. I’m learning. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-3-2016/3/
Thahabu
This week has been filled with positive energy. 
I went to the beach with my friends. The current made it a little cold so we ended up lying out on the sand together instead of swimming, but it was a great way to savor one of the first hot days of the year. I tend to blame myself for things beyond my control, so I kept apologizing for it being too cold to go in the water as if I control the weather. My friends thought I was being silly and told me to relax. 
The very next day I got to hang out with my new friend Karen and her friend Alicia. I had only met Karen once before through social justice work, we bonded as we walked around downtown New York. It’s always nice to talk and befriend other black women in social justice communities because there are so many moments when I feel crazy for thinking a certain thing, or being fed up with something, and then they confirm that they feel the same way and assure me that I’m not crazy. I find comfort in these friendships. 
The three of us were all wearing tight dresses and sporting our beautiful afros. We received plenty of compliments, but we were also being harassed on every block we walked on. A man stared at us in a Starbucks and started dancing to impress us, I guess. Another hovered his hands over us and said “I love this, I love ittt.” We joked about how people love to pretend they love black girls with natural hair…as long as they’re “afrocentric.” It’s refreshing to be around people who know what’s going on and understand what we’re up against, but also want to have fun and joke around, too. Those friendships tend to be the most healing. 
There are so many people who try to limit my complexity and refuse to see me as a multifaceted, dynamic being because I am a young black girl. They treat me like I’m stupid, and try to police the way I react to being disrespected. Telling me that if I want to avoid being offended I should respond in a nicer way, and, if I don’t I deserve to be met with further disrespect. And because I don’t like wasting my energy trying to explain myself I let them get away with it. Karen could relate and told me I’m right to be at one with my emotions and to not let anyone talk me out of them. I know who I am, and I’m going to own it.
I’m so thankful for the time that I had with Karen. It’s making me look forward to the summer as well as dorming in the city this fall so we can see each. We agreed it’s “gon’ be lit.” ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-6-2016/3/
Kiana
Dear Kiana’s existence,
Your worth is not aligned with your ability (or inability) to keep up. You don’t have to keep up, either, and whoever told you to “keep up because that’s how the world runs” is one big existential lie. Unlearn keeping up. Re-learn listening to yourself: your quips, your longings, your mind. Re-learn watching yourself: your quirks and your gestures.
I know it is so silly to write this, knowing how much of a stress-filled ball you are in every single waking moment, but seriously, let go of everyday annoyances that get at your mind because IT DOESN’T MATTER. What matters is you’re here now, no matter how hippie shamanic shit that may sound, and that you are breathing and existing.
There’s been so much “projection” and “compensation” going on with your friends, relatives, elders, loved ones, all of them. Knowing and seeing this in real, live action stresses you out, but you remember the importance of letting things run their course so you let them be. Letting them be means not letting them get to you with their boarded-up, neon-lit signs of Who You Should Be in their minds. Be calm, loosen your grip, let go.
Lastly, to Kiana’s physical existence: Thank you for taking care of yourself. For finding the littlest bit of time to stay hydrated and fed, despite the darkness lurking in your spacetime existence. It makes a huge difference, so thank you thank you thank you for holding up and powering through. I’m grateful.
Love,
Kiana ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-7-2016/3/
Keianna
When I was in seventh grade it felt like my entire middle school was against me. I know that sounds dramatic, and maybe it is, but that’s truly how I felt at age 12. I didn’t really have friends. I had people who would tolerate me being around them for lunchtime maybe once a week, but most of the time I was alone. I wouldn’t have minded my own company if people would have just left me alone.
I was an easy an easy target for the “the room is too quiet, let’s all gang up on someone until they cry” moments. Someone once suggested that I try hanging out with boys instead. Let’s just say they weren’t too keen on me being around. 
Without fail there would always be someone there to rip up my work right before it was supposed to be turned in. If I was ever feeling good about myself there would always be someone to tell me how gross I was. 
I eventually transferred to a different middle school and was more than relieved to get a fresh start. I had a lot of adventures and tribulations there too but I did feel like I belonged.
I love life and myself, and I’m so glad that I let those experiences build me into a stronger person. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-8-2016/3/
Alyson
I would have cried if it weren’t for being out of breath and already being covered in my body’s water (sweat). If I’d cried, it would be like white noise in the yoga room, white water on my body. I think I liked the idea, because then my pain about this would be “just another thing” rather than the foreground of the scene, the star of the show of my life. 
I got hit really hard when I saw him at graduation. When they opened the gates after the fireworks, I immediately set off to find Mitch. It seemed impossible to find him, and the anxiety that I’d felt all night was climbing. When I finally caught his golden head, I ran away from all the people I was with without a thought. I had this fear that in the next second, he would be gone. I realize now how psychologically telling that is. If I didn’t see him now, would I ever see him again? But three seconds later I was hugging him and maybe saying something but nothing groundbreaking because I just wanted to keep him there with me for as long as I could. My soul sibling. We just looked at each other for emotional years despite the momentum wrapped around us. I continued my search for him even though he was right there in front of me. I almost cried. He was born again on the other side of the wall of adulthood. Purer than ever. Everything in me was beating wildly in its cage. Me too, me too. 
I won’t always feel like time with them is locked away—property of the past—and can never happen again. This is just a symptom of change. If nothing is forever, then neither is this sting of being left behind. Soon, we will be doing everything we want, everything we couldn’t do before. It will be OK again. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-9-2016/3/
Thahabu
I received the warmest support and protection from fellow girls while at a BBQ party where Princess Nokia performed on Saturday. Princess Nokia is a gorgeous black and proud Puerto Rican woman who promotes girl power and solidarity in her music. Her songs are a variety of spiritual sonic bad bitchness that makes you believe you are The Most Excellent and Astounding Human Being on the Planet. I guess I was jumping and dancing super hard because in the middle of the set she invited me and other people in the crowd to come dance on stage with her and her friends. It was such an ebullient thrill to be among all these beautiful girls who felt the same fun-loving free energy I did. I left that set with so much inspiration bouncing around in my head.
As my friends and I sat recovering from her set, some other girls sat with us and chatted about school, money, and our dreams of traveling. The summer air became chilly as the sun began to set, and I remembered that I had packed a pair of leggings in my bag for a situation such as this. The only barrier keeping me away from optimal leg warmth was that I needed a place to change out of my shorts. The line to the bathroom was long, and I couldn’t just undress in front of everyone in the venue. Or at least that’s what I thought. One of the girls, who I now remember is named Francesca, offered to make a human fortress around me with her friends and mine, so I could change my pants without offending partygoers. They abandoned their lawn chairs to stand closely around me as I stepped in and out of my shorts and into my leggings. It was such a spontaneous and thoughtful act of kindness. It may seem silly but I was really depressed over the weekend, having those irrational anxious thoughts of I’m never going to accomplish anything! My friends secretly hate me! The world is such a terrible place filled with people who want to hurt me! and this one event reaffirmed my faith in the world. Shout out to you, Francesca. Thanks for helping a girl in need! ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-10-2016/3/
Keianna
I started making plans for the summer between junior and senior year when I was in the sixth grade. It has always been important to me that the last summer of my high school year be beyond amazing. And, although I assumed I’d have been a supermodel for at least three years by now, I still have high expectations. 
I also imagined this summer would be full of wild vacations to places like Italy and Bora Bora, and an amazing glo-up. While it’s safe to say I won’t be getting to Bora Bora, I did get my glo-up a bit early.
As I sit down to write a revised list of goals for this summer, I’m a bit more realistic. I want to make as many new friends as I can. As I’ve begun to shed the shy part of my being, I’m not as content with just hanging out in my room every night. I want to be more comfortable with doing things alone in public. If all goes according to plan, I’ll be going a ways away for school. I don’t want to be so dependent on my family or friends in public situations, so I’ll try going to museums and book stores by myself, just to get used to it. 
The last item on my not-so-long list is making the most of each day. Summers have come and gone where I did nothing and wondered why I hadn’t. I don’t want to look back this summer and feel annoyed with myself because I didn’t do as much as I could have. Even if I’m a bit shy of some of my goals, I promise that I’ll make sixth-grade-me proud and let you guys know how it’s all going. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-13-2016/3/
Marah
How much can people change? Can someone change into a completely different person? Is change a sign of weakness or strength?
These are the questions that rushed over me at the train station here in Switzerland when I randomly ran into a young man who comes from my city in Syria. He was our neighbor, and I have known him since we were little kids. We spent our childhood together, playing outside, careless and naive. He was raised in a similar environment to mine, and with the same customs and traditions.
He is three years older than me, and has been in Switzerland for four years. I did not recognize him when I first saw him, but he recognized me and introduced himself. I could not believe my eyes. He looked like a different person—everything about him was different: his clothes, the way he talked and even his haircut. He invited me and my friends to a nearby cafe. I agreed right away because I wanted to talk about my childhood, my city, and my people. He did not care about our country. He did not want to talk about anything that would remind him of Syria. He said that he didn’t ever want to go back, not even for a visit. He had no idea where his family was or how they were doing.
What happened to him? Were four years here enough to make him forget the 20 years he had spent in Syria? I was shocked. His goal in life was to collect as much money as possible. He does not want to have a family. How he has changed.
I am an advocate of change, but not to the point of losing the essence of one’s personality. I wondered whether I would be like him in a few years. In order to live here and truly integrate into my new society, I’m sure I will have to change a little. I will have to adopt some of this country’s customs. But I refuse to do away with my identity as an Arab and Eastern woman. Yes, I do have a Swiss ID card, but that does not mean that I will throw away my Syrian identity! 
I am honestly worried that I might become adrift and get lost in European society. I have to find a solution, but how? There must be a way to preserve my identity—if not for me, for my little baby who will be a true mix of the East and the West. His family will be Arab, but his school, his friends and his neighbors will all be Western.
I am not discriminating here. I know very well that there are great things in the West, but there are also things that I do not like—things that go against my principles. The East, similarly, has many traditions that I reject and consider dated. It will be very hard to raise my child here and preserve his roots. If all refugee children were to turn into Europeans, and completely forget about their culture, Syria would lose a huge amount. I know I shouldn’t be thinking about that, I should focus on myself and my little family, but maybe it’s possible to bring the two together. To find a happy medium and to raise my child with the best of the two cultures.
Some believe that having a child will force me to postpone my dreams. I don’t think that will happen. I need to realize my dreams in order to be able to provide my child with the support he needs. This is why I study so hard, it is for both of us—for me and for my child.
This baby motivates me to overcome all the challenges I face. There is a wonderful feeling that keeps growing with this baby—it is motherhood. I cannot wait to meet him…or her. In a week, the doctor will tell me whether the baby is a boy or a girl. I don’t have a preference, but my husband, Karam, dreams of a baby boy. Although I hate this Middle Eastern tradition of preferring boys over girls, I would like him to be happy. But I do believe that if we end up having a baby girl, Karam will fall for her. He will realize how precious it is to have a baby girl. Girls are like butterflies, they spread happiness and joy. This is what my father and my grandfather always told me. ♦
Marah’s diary is produced in collaboration with Syria Deeply, a digital news outlet covering the Syrian crisis. It has been translated from Arabic.
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-14-2016/3/
Thahabu
I started working at my local library last week. I worked there for two years during high school, and I thought it was only right that I go back for summer work. 
I’ve been visiting this library since my dad could push me in a stroller and cuddle me by the bookshelves while he read me Dr. Seuss books. As I grew older and developed depression, the library became a safe space, where I learned to log out of stress by delving into books about girls who didn’t fit in—girls like me. The librarians knew me by name and watched me grow up. They were like my third, fourth, and fifth grandmas; always interested in what I was reading and how I was doing in high school. 
There was also a library page who was a few years older than me, Steffie, whose style I admired. She wore goth-inspired outfits with tutus and crowns to work. We became friends, and one day during my sophomore year of high school she asked, “Why don’t you just work here? We need more pages!” That’s when I fell even more in love with the sanctuary I call a library. 
A year later, Steffie’s friend Christine began working here, and we became the “three musketeers” as the librarians called us. We were all short and used footstools to reach the top shelves. We also, unfortunately, bonded over the sexual harassment we’d sometimes face from male patrons, who would hound us to hang with them after our shift or beg for our number. Once, one of them even grabbed Christine, and we had to call them police. We had each others backs, though, and that’s what mattered. 
I realize I’d forgotten how much I loved the smell of thousands of old and new books sitting on wooden shelves. The quiet makes it so much easier to think, while I shift bookshelves and help patrons. I even get to work on the garden we have in the back. I don’t know what kind of plants there are back there but they’re all different shades of green. One is a very deep green, while others are very bright with hints of yellow—that one reminds me of a rave party. I pull the weeds and water the plants when asked. It’s just as peaceful as walking between the bookshelves. 
Speaking of shelves, I also tend to find my old favorite books when working. I thumb through the pages and remember the feeling its words gave me three, or five years ago, and if it isn’t busy, I might read 20 pages of a new book that seems interesting to me. I most recently borrowed Haruki Murakami’s 1Q84. 
I appreciate working at the library even more now that I’m older. It’s like returning to a familiar, settled happiness. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-15-2016/3/
Cammy
Summer usually feels like a relief, because I don’t have to worry about school. But this summer is probably the most high-stress ever. It’s my last summer of grade school and that is freaking me out. I’m gonna be a senior in the fall—a lot of my friends are already saying we’re seniors—and I’m really, really scared. I have to actually start growing up. I always figured I would have more time. 
I have to make sure I do really well with my grades this year, to pull up my GPA. Before, talking about colleges could be ridiculous and unreasonable. Shooting for Ivy League schools was anything anyone could do, but now that everyone understands that you can’t get into Harvard with a 2.5 GPA, it all just feels scrambled. 
I’m really nervous that I’m gonna end up like one of those adults who had to settle for a shitty job that they hate, all because I don’t care about my work enough now to “be somebody.” I want to go to a good school for film, but I’ve been wondering if I really even care about myself enough to get there. I don’t put a lot of effort into my grades and I always have teachers talking at me about all my “potential.” Then again, everything—my birth chart and mental illness included—says that I’ll only put effort into something if I truly care for it. And I feel like I care for a lot of things. I want to make sure my life ends up where it’s supposed be. I just don’t know how to get to what I want. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-16-2016/3/
Kiana
In high school, I mostly read Paulo Coelho’s work. There was this one quote that I have honestly kept out of mind, but which resurfaced just now. It’s something about having the wrong answers because we ask the wrong questions…I may be misremembering it.
Going back to college feels like a truckload of questions, after a year of thinking about whether or not to go back. I could have written down all the questions: the questions I’m forced by circumstance to ask; all the ironies I’m putting myself in, unwillingly, just to get by; all the molds I skedaddled right into. I want to remember them, just in case. I want to be reminded that I once was brave, although unconventional, brave nevertheless. I want to be reminded of this stage in my life when I made decisions for myself, which could potentially impact the future. I want to remember how good—but also equally terrifying—taking the reins, ruling your life, being accountable to yourself is.
But it’s fine, enough with the future-talk. What I’m here (and anxious) for is the present. I have read enough meditation and mindfulness books to know that the present isn’t a photocopy of the Garden of Eden. My present is more like The Garden of Earthly Delights, digitized and projected in my brain—a real, live social experiment, or whatever. It’s chaotic, but I’m here for it. I love it, but also genuinely loathe it. I am so ironic, which makes me a candidate for becoming a person who is full of shit. 
Yesterday there were some students talking about someone I know and admire out in the hallway, and because I’m a horrible person who has no self-respect, I continued to eavesdrop. They were talking about how this person uses pseudonyms during classes (“Like, why not just use your real name?! Duh BE IN THE REAL WORLD”), how this pseudonym-bearing “horrendous” human also happens to click with almost every professor in the hallway. UUUUUGHCK I have to stop ’cause I don’t wanna mess your psyches, my angels. Basically, they were spewing hate. The person they were talking about was someone who I think is hecking cool, and whom I admire so much. For me, every time I go out to the world I’m seeking an opportunity, or experience, or trigger to think less of myself. Cool.
Let me share with you my to-do list for the week (for the whole month, even), from Rainier Maria Rilke’s first letter in Letters to a Young Poet: “…to keep growing, silently and earnestly, through your whole development; you couldn’t disturb it any more violently than by looking outside and waiting for outside answers to questions that only your innermost feeling, in your quietest hour, can perhaps answer.”
This is it, you all. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-17-2016/3/
Fatma
I’m catching up with homework again. I don’t think there has ever been a point in my life when I have had everything done. I have a habit of leaving things to the last minute, if I don’t want to do them. 
My dreams have been extremely weird lately, to the point that I wake up and question whether I’m still asleep. I hate it. Visions of me meeting my favorite celebrities mixed with morbid flashbacks of my dead relatives. I wake up to my humid room, and seeing the Missy Elliott poster on my wall, I’m reassured that my dreams are over and that I’m now awake. I am safe.
I’ve been trying to be nice to myself. I’ve realized that I have to like myself in order to be happier, so I have started taking steps to quiet the constant, judg-y voice in my head. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-20-2016/3/
Marah
The arrival of the holy month of Ramadan renews many pains and reopens many wounds. This month used to be one filled with religious and popular traditions practiced in homes, markets, and mosques. The month of Ramadan was a time of love, family bonding, and gatherings. Our house was the place where the extended family gathered. My mother and my grandmother would prepare a variety of delicious food. Our dining table looked like a colorful painting. What I miss most is the tradition of exchanging special dishes with neighbors. My siblings and I used to take samples of what we had cooked to our neighbors and bring back whatever they had cooked. We loved this tradition. It felt like we were carrying presents to our neighbors. We were so innocent!
I have many good memories of this holy month. I used to go with my grandfather to the Umayyad mosque in Damascus for Friday prayers. After prayers, we’d walk around the historical market of al-Hamidiyya, and buy special Ramadan sweets, like date and grape syrup bread. We would also buy delicious Ramadan drinks like licorice and tamarind juice.
Our life before the crisis was simple and wonderful. This is why, even though I am far away from my home country, I cannot forget those days. I miss them like a little child misses her mother. I truly hope that one day I will be able to see my relatives, who are now scattered across many countries.
I sometimes voice this longing to my husband, Karam, hoping that we might break the fast with his parents. I wonder if being around his family might help, but how on earth would that fill the gap left by my own family?
I do not know why I am so devastated. Is it because of how far away I am from my home country? Is it because I miss my mother and my father? Is it because I cannot fulfill my religious duty and fast this year? My doctor prohibited me from fasting because of the pregnancy and told to me to take good care of my baby and myself, as I have not gained enough weight during my pregnancy.
Being pregnant does make me feel tired. My daily classes, as well as the commute, make things even more difficult. I have not mentioned this to Karam, because I worry that he might ask me to take precious days off, even though I am in a hurry to learn this language. I know the baby will occupy my time, so I want to learn as much as I can and as fast as I can before the baby arrives. I also really love going to school. It is the place where I see my friends and where we can talk, laugh, and enjoy our time. 
Despite our different languages and nationalities, my classmates and I have been able to get to know each other, and each other’s traditions. Sometimes we talk about our studies, and other times we talk about Switzerland and Swiss people. Most of my conversations with my friends are in English, since my German is not yet good enough for conversation. But sometimes, we switch to German so we can practice. The sentences we form are grammatically embarrassing, but it doesn’t matter, because we are learning and it’s normal that we make lots of mistakes. My biggest issue with German is that I often need time to remember the meanings of words, and I ask people to repeat what they say so many times. My teacher told me that this is completely normal for beginner students. My teacher is another reason why I love school. He believes that I am too young to be married and to have a child, so he keeps checking on me and provides me with all the resources I need. He is a great teacher and friend.
To be honest with you, my teacher’s care and support makes my husband jealous—and I love that. I sometimes even try to escalate his jealousy by tossing out some ambiguous, joking comments. Karam is very easy to make jealous; it’s like he is hardwired to be protective of his wife, sister, or any female relative. Karam’s jealousy does not bother me, because it does not prevent me from doing what I want, and it doesn’t cause trouble between us.
Despite being old-school sometimes, Karam is the one who keeps me balanced in this new place. I still cannot believe that I live here, and sometimes I wonder how I ended up here, how one decision can change a person’s entire life. Destiny leads us in directions we never imagined taking. 
Although I am far away, I never stop thinking of my people in Syria, especially during the holy month of Ramadan. I keep thinking of all of the families who fast, but cannot afford to buy enough food to break their fast. I pray for them, and I pray that one day I will be able to help them. ♦
Marah’s diary is produced in collaboration with Syria Deeply, a digital news outlet covering the Syrian crisis. It has been translated from Arabic.
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-21-2016/3/
Simone
Dear 12-year-old Momo,
I know exactly where you are right now. You’re in the hair-care aisle at the CVS Uptown, because Uptown is the coolest, with your mother. You’re squatting on the ground, looking through the bottom ledge of hair products. You’ve been here for a lengthy 15 minutes, but this is familiar. Every six weeks or so you buy a new hair product, it fails, and you incessantly search for a new one, only to repeat the cycle.
By now, you’ve tried nearly everything, to no avail. Promises of sleek, frizzless, shiny hair have all been empty. To make matters worse, your recent cut has resulted in tighter, far more unruly curls. These are tough times indeed.
To contend with your woes, you chock your wrists full of hair ties, different colors and thicknesses. Unlike hair products, they all do the same exact job, and well. They tie up your hair, temporarily concealing your dishwater blonde kinks and making you more comfortable in your daily life.
As you struggle, you see white girls with long, bouncy hair cascading down their backs, quickly swipe products off shelves. They don’t have to read ingredient lists to avoid silicones or sulfates or mineral oils. They don’t have to buy ever-shifting combinations of serums and leave-in conditioners and gels in effort to tame their manes. You are jealous of these girls, but more specifically, their simpler predicaments.
What is your predicament? Well, that’s complicated. Your predicament is finally having to wander to another section of the store, the ethnic hair care aisle. Another aisle in which you will search, only to be left disappointed.
It is not your face you see on the boxes on the shelves of this corridor. You have light skin, blue eyes, and blonde hair. But the fact is, your blonde hair is thick and kinky due to the DNA of your biological and brown-skinned mother, who happens to be growing very impatient of the time it’s taking you to find a goddamned conditioner.
In the ethnic hair care aisle, all products are either oils far too insoluble to make your hair anything but greasy, or lye-based relaxers. You’ve heard on the internet that black people who put lye in their hair hate themselves. But you’re not really sure about that, because, basically, every black person you’ve ever seen on TV had unnaturally straight hair. In school, you learned about Madam C.J. Walker, who apparently made a million dollars self-hating. It seems your kin is on to something. They’ve discovered how much easier it is to navigate the world with straight hair! You agree. A few aisles over lie the simple solutions: Conair, Revlon, and Remington. Of course, your mother refuses.
12-year-old Simone, I know you really love Lady Gaga, and the song on her new album called “Hair.” Now, at this age, you probably only think you like this song because of who sings it, but from a wiser, older perspective, I can tell you that this song is slowly brainwashing you. As Gaga sings the refrain, “I am my hair,” you think to yourself, Mother Monster is her hair: bold, edgy, and colorful. And I am my hair: messy, weird, and trapped, forever choosing between two identities.
In many years, you’ll refine your taste and stop listening to Lady Gaga. But one night, you’ll feel a wave of nostalgia and Google the lyrics to your old favorite song, “Hair.” With heightened analytical skills, you will come to realize that you ignored the most important part of the song. In the hook, she sings, “I’ve had enough / This is my prayer / That I’ll die living just as free as my hair.” She continues, wailing “I’m as free as my hair.” And in this moment, you realize you’ve been wrong this whole time.
Lady Gaga was never her hair, she was Lady Gaga. She had no static identity. You need not have one either. Your hair is a mix of textures. This stems from the fact that you are black and you are white. But most importantly, you are Simone. And while it is true and unfair that our country often makes its citizens select a single self, it is equally unrealistic, especially for you.
No aisle of products will ever suit your needs. You don’t need one to. Yes, with a lack of adequate product, your hair is going to look wild when it’s humid or after you go swimming, but your hair is beautiful, and beautifully yours alone, with its waves of the Ivory Coast and its reddish hues of Ireland and Scotland. It is wild in the best way. It starts conversation, and garners compliments from trendy French women at the A&P. Be proud of it. Be proud of you.
Little me, I can’t promise that one day you’ll be entirely proud of your hair. But I can tell you that you will one day embrace it. A combination of bullying regarding the size of your forehead and your mother’s constant playing of Corrine Bailey Rae’s “Put Your Records On” will result in you actually letting your hair down. Eventually, the hair ties on your wrists will serve as little more than accessories.
The journey will have its ups and downs. You’ll experience bouts of unabating straightening, and experiment with bleach. Ultimately, it will be for the best when you dye your locks back to their natural state upon comments comparing you to a young Justin Timberlake and ramen. It is in its most genuine state that you will find you like your hair best.
I promise that one day your time spent wandering the aisles of CVS will be significantly less woeful, and solely dedicated to wondering what diabetes socks are.
All the love,
17-year-old Momo ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-22-2016/3/
Keianna
This morning we went out to breakfast. I watched my sister over our eggs in a basket, and when she finally made eye contact with me we laughed. This entire trip has been going so well. We called Dad today and, although I miss him, I’m worried about how bored we will be when we get back home. Boredom leads to fighting.
No one else wanted to go on a day trip with us. It ended up being just my aunt and me in the car and I’m grateful for that. Driving around in the desert is something I’ve always loved. The only thing you can see are rocks all around. You can actually set your phone down; the lack of service really helps. 
We came across the International Banana Museum. Yeah it’s a thing and it’s amazing. For the entry price of $1 you’re allowed to roam the one room that holds the largest collection of banana memorabilia. If you do happen to find this gem try the frozen banana.
When we got back to the car it was only a 30 minute drive to the place we had set out for. Salvation Mountain is gorgeous. It’s more of a hill but it’s amazing nonetheless. It was painted by Leonard Knight over 30 years ago. The colorful mountain is adorned with scripture. If you’re close enough to visit it you really should, if not at least Google it because my descriptions can’t do it justice. Even if you aren’t religious it’s a sight to see. You can feel the passion of everyone who works there’s to keep it looking beautiful. 
I’m content with how lovely today was, but I can’t wait to go to sleep. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-23-2016/3/
Britney

We have found the crevice just outside of real time and I am determined to stay in it for as long as possible. It is dark out, but I know that if I get up to return to the bunker I won’t know how to deal with the loss. I am not used to feeling as if I could never spend enough time with another person; the only constant exception to this is—was—my mother.
***
My class was gone on a trip from Tuesday to Friday, racing around upstate New York to see colleges. I bled on the first day without having my period. This has only ever happened to me once or twice, and I can’t recall if it took place before or after my mom died. (This is my demarcation line for most unusual things.) I bought two tampons even though I knew the blood wouldn’t come again and locked myself in a steel box in the Cornell bathroom to hold them in my hand. 
I wrote five new poems in the same day on one of the bus rides, which happened so often that they became as natural as breaths. The writing was another rarity; I am not used to regurgitating that many words at once. I refused to talk to anyone I knew for reasons I still can’t explain and read Anne Sexton (I rolled my eyes at how cliché this sounds too, but it was my initiation, and a good one). I broke down more than once. Most of the time it was in the dead stillness of passing through Ithaca or Rochester with almost all of my classmates asleep and unmoving around me. There is nothing scarier than realizing that it’s too much to live but you cannot die and either path will have serious repercussions while you are sitting with 40 other kids. I didn’t think I would make it. I thought that it would finally be the moment where I shrieked with no end in sight and ran off of the bus and into the forest to deliberate my last minutes in a sweaty panic. In all honesty, this would have been a relief, like the last melatonin down before sleep. But I knew that it wasn’t right. If there is a time when it would be “right” for me to leave, it was not then and it is not now, or even close. I can appreciate this fact for now. 
***
I sit on the floor of my bunker and listen to the Virgin Suicides soundtrack at 4 AM after four hours of talking to the boy I like. The air feels strange because of the summer equinox. I notice a swollen bug bite that I didn’t notice earlier and suddenly it burns like my thigh has kissed a flame. My body is a battleground, except I must always watch from afar. Even the sidelines are too good for me—I’m not allowed to know what is happening. 
I turn 17 next month. It is strange to be witness to such a polar difference between years. When I turned 16 last year, I was still moving and I spent my birthday in Israel and my concept of intimacy had been warped into a series of hookups that I am still shaking off memories of. I am not the same at all. I am very pleased with the switch. My life will never be perfect and there is no fact I am more content with than this one, my golden rule. But this is the closest I have come. I ban all of my considerations of possible ends or screw-ups and just…exist. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-24-2016/3/
Kiana
I wonder how it feels to be liked by someone. I wonder what my world or life would be like if I had a Life Partner, someone I could romantically smother with all my weirdnesses. This may not be the highest form of human experience, or the absolute best feature of existence, and I’m sure there are other feelings I will someday feel that are far greater than romantic love, but seeing everyone around me WRITHING in the throes of young, teenage love makes me question my capability to be loved, my worth as a person even.
I want to be liked by someone. No, I need to be liked by someone. Badly.
Did you know there was a boy from my high school that I was so ENTRENCHED in? I may have incorporated anecdotal bits of it in some of my writing here. It was love unreturned, unrequited, whatever, and as much as I’d like to think I’m over it now, who am I kidding? There’s still this looming, throbbing hurt child in my heart wanting to just swallow whole chocolate-pieces of love from anyone. This I’d like to think of as a collateral to the unrequited situation—looking for love/accepting love for the sake of having love, even if this love manifests itself in hurtful, selfish, destructive ways.
(Side note: I found this great internet advice piece on unrequited love games. You’re gon’ like it!)
I foresee myself going down a spiraling path of love. More so, I’m afraid of myself for having no self-restraint, jumping from one love-pond to another. I know this to be true because just last week—in the middle of the first-school-week grind—I noticed a boy from one of my classes looking at me intently, a glare of the eyes which, if one is perceptive enough on social cues, denotes interest. I jumped on this boy’s interest right away, the needy and torn person that I am, and it was the worst thing to ever experience on the first week of a girl’s going back to college. It affected me prematurely, as if it was high school all over again, and ICK, THIS IS NOT THE KIND OF ATTENTION OR “LIKE” THAT I WANT, MOM.
I have affirmed and preached a whole of times that it’s not the end of mankind when you’re heartbroken or loveless, but I was just thinking the other night, what if I turn 20 without a single name to my “List of Lovers” and I turn out to be a bitter, miserable 20-something, but also career-driven and focused and goal-oriented, all at the same time? HOT MESS. I want to be that, honestly, but it’s also vital for me, at least, to experience back-and-forth love between the ages 16 and 19, because these are Formative Years and feeling feelings seems to be more interesting and Technicolor within this age bracket.
My god, I sound like a statistician with a minor concentration in Human Relationships. I’m castigating myself for feeling like this already, because I want to be focused in school and in my writing and in my general personhood, so CAN CUTE TEENAGE COUPLES JUST NOT? Some days, though, I feel as though I can totally live off on my own, on a secluded tropical island. But, for now, I’m this whiny teenager worrying about love life ’n’ stuff. Holy wow. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-27-2016/3/
Kiana
I am relearning how to be a person in the world. It’s different when you have been locked up for one year, without the company of young people your age. It’s weird when, for a year, you have been with adults who only care about more time, money, and affection.
I am relearning how to walk in my body. It’s different now that I am going to school every day and being looked at by people my age; people who, like me, are enormously conscious of how they look and are perceived.
Claiming sovereignty over the mind and body is hard, especially when you have been trampled on by the world for being too loud, too volatile, too “extreme for an Asian girl.” At school, I get stared at for rebutting a male professor’s thoughts on rape. Why is it that when a young woman steps up to speak, she is covertly ridiculed by the audience, by fellow women even, by people who are her age, by people who may have experienced injustice in their own lives? I find it so unfair that men are lauded for speaking and doing academic studies on issues about which they have not an inkling of firsthand experience. 
I can’t wait to see this world tremble as rightful voices claim the podium to speak. I can’t wait to be there, a spectator in a sea of people. I can’t wait for us to claim the conversation that is rightfully ours. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-28-2016/3/
Steffany
I’m coasting by on a weird mixture of stress and relief. I had a sit down with a mentor of mine, and walked away with a newfound sense of self and affirmation that the things that matter to me are important. I was validated by great food, even greater company, and edges that managed to lay in 80 degree weather. As my mother put it: I’m at a very fragile place in my life. She is often right. I ping pong between mounting stress, defeat, and realizing just who the fuck I am. Even with high confidence on my side, now more than ever, I need a support system that genuinely wants to see me win. And yet at the worst of times, I am in the midst of a case of the fake people. It’s tough to let go of a friendship that you’ve had since pre-K, but something has to give. If someone’s always waiting in the wings to tear down whatever I have going on because they feel threatened, that isn’t real friendship. 
I am such a caring person, and I love people so much. I want them to be their best selves. So I’m frustrated that someone who refers to me as their friend wouldn’t want the same for me. I was in denial for a long time, as in, “oh they’re going through something right now, hence the negative energy.” Not realizing the person I was sharing my hopes and dreams with was secretly gazing upon me with evil eye. Secretly willing herself into my good graces so she could convince me not to do things under the guise of “advice.” Girl, bye. I’ll side step the specifics of our mini argument this time. It isn’t relevant. What is relevant is that we’re moving in two completely different directions. I’m not going to engage in false modesty, I believe people can see that I’m that bitch. 
I puff out my chest and say things like, “I’m li’l Oprah” because I truly fucking believe that. I believe it so deeply that other people do, too. As they should, duh. I can do anything I put my mind to. As time goes on, I’m narrowing my focus a little more. I’m also having fun. Fiddling with my camera, making beats, trying to mix Skepta into MIA (it’s tough!) and just LIVING. It’s stifling, you know, being unable to make a move or dream out loud without some unsolicited advice. It’s bigger than just her, but when it comes to making a change, she’s where I’m going to start.
After my first year, I’ve landed back in my hometown with people who are draining me. I’m exhausted. Seeing an old high school friend who is upset I don’t have time for her, and who wants me to be her therapist now—NAH. I don’t have time for it. I won’t do it anymore. I have to restore order to my life. I’m on another path. I am going to will the life I want for myself into existence, and it doesn’t include not one of these people!
People who have slandered me up and down Facebook are trying to get back into my life, and I flat out refuse. They hit me up about who they think I know or how I can help them. I tell them, “I don’t think you deserve my conversation.” It’s so liberating. If I saw them on the street, I wouldn’t spit in their direction. You can’t pay people that are so invested in your failure any mind. When they see you aren’t failing, when they think you can put them on, they try to come back. You can’t let them. I won’t let them. I’m finally getting a true sense of who I am and the power I have, and that feels so great. I’m a five star chick. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-29-2016/3/
Alyson
i. Wind combed through my eyelashes, usually stiffened by mascara and therefore unable to be so lovingly cared for.
ii. When I was young, I thought that writing well revolved around sounding as pretentious as possible. I got really good at it, too. I suppose that now, in 2016, calling out your own pretentious habits is the new pretentious. Welcome back to the starting point of this now full circle.
iii. We left the house with the door open. I wasn’t going to close it and I was so relieved when you didn’t either. Same page in the same enchanting book. Bought new. I have very selective taste in books.
iv. All the people in New York City are a blanket. I want to live with them around me. I want the blanket that doesn’t shrivel from your body even when you tell it to.
v. My sketchbook got damp today and my heart is warped as the few beginning and ending pages. I always think sketchbooks are thicker with meaning when you can tell it took a journey to finish them. I still wish I had done a better job. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/6/dear-diary-june-30-2016/3/
Fatma
Cherry Bomb. Chur Bum. Che-rr-y Bo-mb. I love the way the title of Tyler the Creators’s fourth album rolls off of my tongue. I’ve listened to most of the songs, but I still haven’t bought it yet. This is due to the fact that although my sister is fairly chill with explicit content, she was very passionate about me not listening to this album. But I guess she has realized that I have already listened to 90 percent of the songs, and that I’m becoming more mature. 
I’m really glad that my sister is starting to trust me more. She is the only person who keeps me wanting to try harder in every situation that I’m in. She’s so dedicated. She’s giving me an hour math lessons after school, because I did really badly in my most recent math test. I’m so grateful to have her in my life. Plus, she showed me Seinfeld, which has to be one of the funniest shows I have ever seen. My sister understood how much I loved Tyler’s album—she even gave me her poster. Posters mean a lot to me because they make me feel close to the people I look up to. In my room I have a poster of Missy Elliott (the woman with my idea of ideal confidence in herself), Destiny’s Child (the true definition of survivors), Mac DeMarco (the reminder to be kind and relaxed) and now my new addition: the Cherry Bomb poster. 
This poster reminds me that if I try hard enough, anything is possible. It is stored deep in my heart because I have spent most of my teenage life trying to prove to my parents that I can have a job that I love, and thanks to Rookie, they’re starting to be more supportive of my creative endeavours. The Cherry Bomb poster gives me hope in that I’ll be able to live my life as an adult with positivity and fun. 
I think trying to take part in more of my hobbies—listening to and collecting music—has made me happier. Also, if you were wondering, the self-love journey is going well. I’m in the process of trying to forget the hate and prejudice that I have been programmed to feel towards myself as a Muslim and a person of color, and I’m trying to learn to love myself and my curly hair and my skin color and my culture that I was forced to forget because I had to assimilate into English culture. Things are going quite well for me at the moment. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/5/dear-diary-may-2-2016/3/
Keianna
On Thursday, life threw another year into my eager hands. It feels like I’ve been waiting to turn 17 since I was born, and so far I haven’t been disappointed. 
My birthday itself was a quiet day full of friends, family, and love. The next day was one I’ve been looking forward to for a really long time. My friends Natalie, Jasmine, and I went to out to explore the arts district of Los Angeles. The starting point of our trip was the Broad Art Museum. You’ll have to trust me when I say the the entire museum was beautiful beyond words. We couldn’t walk by a single piece without having to gasp. It was so lovely that even the rude docent who accused us of only being there for Instagram pictures couldn’t get us down for long. 
Afterwards, looked over the city. I don’t think I’ve ever felt more complete than I did then. Only hunger drove us away. The ending point of our day was the coolest light tunnel ever. was a day was full of moments of content silence, full hearts, and “I’m so glad we’re all friends.” I’m glad we all got to experience it together. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/5/dear-diary-may-3-2016/3/
Fatma
I’ve been feeling quite positive recently, which I think is due to contemplating whether to stop hanging out with a certain group of people at school. I honestly don’t think they like me and I feel really self-conscious around them. I really don’t want to feel like this so I’m going to try to speak to new people in my year group, and listen to the music I like. I hope I’ll feel better. 
I’m like Ally Sheedy’s character in the movie The Breakfast Club, but without the makeover. To put it in a simpler way—I’m just a loser. And, although I don’t really have a problem with this, the people in my class definitely do. They have a way of putting labels on people and criticizing them. I was never taught how to socialize with people and it shows in my weak emotional connection with my “friends” at school. If they’re somehow reading this, I want them to know that I’m sorry for constantly repeating that “I’m really tired,” or that “I woke up late.” The truth is that I really don’t know what to say. I’m clueless because everything I find funny, like the movie Austin Powers, they find childish. I feel really excluded, watching them laugh and reminisce about memories or inside jokes, while I just stand there. 
I’m also insulted about my friends make fun of the way working-class people speak where I live, without realizing that I speak like that, but at school I feel like I have to change how I talk, to not appear uncivilised. I’m excited to talk to new people and try new things because I don’t feel like being upset anymore. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/5/dear-diary-may-4-2016/3/
Thahabu
I’m officially transferring to my school’s city campus for the fall semester. I’ve changed my major to film and screen studies with a minor in creative writing. I was nervous about switching programs. Most people have me pegged as the super-conscious girl whose only goal is to become a famous journalist or media connoisseur. I imagine friends and family turning their noses up at me asking, “What the hell are you go to do with a degree in film?” It doesn’t help that artistry sometimes seems like an exclusive pretentious club, filled with people waiting to see you fail or judging you for not going the traditional route, “Oooh so you’re interested in making films, eh? Well, let me tell you how I do it and how you shouldn’t do it!” That’s why I’m not very open about my creativity or story ideas, and why so many people were shocked about my interest in film. 
Before making this decision I sought out my godsister’s opinion. She also graduated with a degree in journalism. I confided in her about how I’ve become bored and uninterested in my communications major, and only felt I was learning something of worth when I took my media production class, or classes that tapped into storytelling. It’s not that I no longer care about being media savvy, I would still like to pursue work in the field, I’m just not as passionate about it as I was when I was 11 years old. Before I could even mention how wary I was to tell other people about this change, my godsister cut me off to remind me to not let others dissuade me from my dreams. “Don’t let people tell you that you can only be good at one thing,” she said. I’d heard sayings like that before, but somehow I didn’t think it applied to me until that phone conversation. There are people who have known me for a long time and have this set idea of who I should be and what I should want to be successful in. When I show them that I have interest in something else, especially when it’s something that I’ve always like but just kept to myself, they find it surprising and act as if they’ve been duped. It’s like in Amy Rose’s essay “I’ll Be Your Mirror.” They don’t like seeing that different side of me, they want to keep me in a safe box of their own ideas where I don’t challenge their stifling view of me. It’s as if I’m allowed to sparkle until my shine becomes surprisingly brighter and blinds them, rendering me unrecognizable to those I thought understood me.
I held myself to being that girl who was good at one thing, even when I knew I could succeed in other activities and jobs. If I went out and did something else that would be weird, right? But I would never apply the same rules to my friends, so I won’t do to myself either. Why shouldn’t I pursue writing and film? I have all these story ideas that I think would work best on film. I don’t want them to curl up and die in a dark place in my mind. 
I’m happy with my decision: The prospect of starting a new creative program has me so excited that I almost want to skip summer and go straight to fall (except, I love summer). I’m going to see if my dad will let me borrow his camera so I can start shooting random things and my friends over break. I feel like I’m busting with this a motivation and hope that I haven’t felt before. I know this is going to work out. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/5/dear-diary-may-5-2016/3/
Lilly
The notices start arriving: Facebook posts and invitations to graduation parties and markers on our class map. The cute girl from my last college visit makes her commitment halfway across the country. I’ll probably never see her again, because my decision has already been made. I’ve been wearing my representative sweatshirt for two weeks.
I run five kilometers for my P.E. final. It’s surprisingly easy, and I feel strong. The morning after I wake up to find my windows pelted with rain that will last for days—my favorite kind of weather. It’s hard to focus on studying, even with my last few exams and term papers nipping at my ankles. But the air tastes like things ending, and to me that’s just a reminder that no matter what, this will be over soon.
Some parts of that are easy to accept. New surroundings, academic freedom—I’ve been eagerly anticipating those for years. Other parts are harder to come to terms with. All of my friends and I will be going our separate ways in just a couple of short months and maybe it’s foolish to want to cling to your high school friends, but I think it’s just as foolish to be as distant as I’ve been the past couple of weeks. It’s not that they don’t matter to me; I guess some part of me thinks it’ll be easier to leave if I feel like I don’t matter to them as much as I used to. I don’t think I’m wording it right because it doesn’t even make sense to say it.
OK, something happier: I’m going to run more this summer. I did my 5K as part of a huge race in my area and even with all of my post-practice aches and pains—because my coach wasn’t going to let us go early just because we had a race to run that night—it felt good, and it felt smooth, and I didn’t even realize it was almost over until I had the finish line in my sights. I want to do that more. I’ve missed how running makes me feel. Maybe in this time of ceaseless change all I really need is one constant to hold onto. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/5/dear-diary-may-6-2016/3/
I keep buying thrift store jean jackets, but I only wear the one I’ve had for three years. —Amil
Kiana
The sun was scorching my brain, and my kindness toward the world dissipated. Read More »
Keianna
I was happy to see how accepting and loving everyone was. It was a great experience. Read More »
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/5/dear-diary-may-9-2016/3/
Cammy
Life feels really busy. I don’t feel overwhelmed, but school ending soon feels weird, as if everything is going too fast. 
I had prom on Friday and that was cool, I guess. We didn’t have a prom king or queen because the girl in charge of that forgot the ballots, which is totally something that would happen to me. The same girl also forgot the list of song requests, and the DJ was this old guy who only had music from 2011, or whenever middle school was. 
I’m hanging out with new kids a lot more now. It’s weird how they’re such a big group; there’s a lot to notice about them. They all interact with each other well, although there are problems. I don’t know whether they don’t see them or they just don’t want to see them, but I’m not established enough in this group to say anything about it. 
There’s this one girl that I really like, and I hope we’re friends for a long time. Weirdly, she shares a birthday with one of my former friends. My new friend’s name is Maire. She’s a Sagittarius sun and Cancer moon, which I think is the best Cancer placement. She has a car and she came over to my house to get ready for prom. No one ever comes to my house because I live in Alameda and everyone thinks it’s really far but it’s not. She helped me clean the bathroom, which is nice because when my friends do come over and make a mess they usually leave me to clean it. Also my bathroom is really gross. 
What happened on Friday could be a scene in a movie. I’ve always thought about how my life seems like it should be a movie and, since I’ve been getting more and more interested in film I’ve been truly thinking about it. There are a lot of interesting things going on in my life and I could probably write it as chapters. I’ve actually been thinking about making a movie about the different parts of my life. There could be a part about when I was seven and my parents got divorced so I had to switch schools—that had a big impact on my life. But I’d probably want to focus on things that happened more recently, because I have a better feel for how I’m feeling about things right now. I think making a film would also help people understand me better: As much as I understand other people, they really don’t get me. So I should really try picking up a camera. I just found out about a film class I could take this summer that seems really cool. I think it’s free and it’s at the community college. I wanna talk to my mom about it—the class and wanting to be a filmmaker. Parents are always scared when kids want to do something creative. I was always destined for that though, being a Pisces and all! My midheaven is in Aquarius, and that kinda tells you what careers you’ll be drawn too. Mine says I should be a filmmaker, which is super cool!!! 
I think this will be really good for me. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/5/dear-diary-may-10-2016/3/
Kiana
I’m reading Mary Oliver’s poem “Wild Geese.” To the left, outside my window, the moon is slowly waxing into glory. I look to my right and whisper little prayers from my heart. I fix my gaze on some lit purple and red candles.
“You only have to let the soft animal of your body
love what it loves.”
After a little discord with the universe, I am looking inside myself for a little tenderness. I know that I have it, we all do. It’s just that, sometimes, life catches up with us and snatches what little softness we have.
“Meanwhile the world goes on.”
I dwell in the little moments of my tenderness routine—my practice, if you will. These little in-betweens are where I dance without self-contempt to Fleetwood Mac, or sing along with TLC. I’m still reading and celebrating The Waves by Virginia Woolf, slowly, because I’m nearing its end and I am not a huge fan of books ending, especially lovely ones.
I’ve been thinking of the last time I saw a sunrise, or felt a sunset’s pull. It was last year, I’m sure, and I feel bad right now just ruminating on that fact. If I can’t sleep tonight, because I like to fight with myself by drinking way too much caffeine (I know it’s bad, BUT…), I might have to go out and stare at the horizon, where the warmest, most generous ball of hot gas and combined elements sets out to rise and show itself to the world.
“Whoever you are, no matter how lonely,
the world offers itself to your imagination.” ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/5/dear-diary-may-11-2016/3/
Keianna
I spent around three hours sitting in a very uncomfortable position while a lady whose name I did not catch styled my hair to perfectly embody the Roaring ’20s theme. She said it took so long to complete the simple look because of how much hair I have, and kept reminding me that it was a blessing despite her complaining. Fair enough. 
Eventually we were done, and I was taken back to my aunt’s house where too many people tried to help me get dressed. I let my family gather around and take pictures of me and my date. 
“What camera am I looking at, guys, get it together?!” I laughed trying to hide my overwhelming nerves.
It wasn’t until we got into the limo and made our way to the hotel that I actually started to enjoy myself. When we walked in, I almost relaxed a little more. I let go of the feeling of being judged, because I wouldn’t have to see anyone here ever again. 
The music was good. The people were friendly. They even had mozzarella sticks. I was happy, and when I finally returned home to sleep I was a little sad the night was over. 
“How was it?”
“I’ll tell you in the morning. I’m exhausted.” ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/5/dear-diary-may-12-2016/3/
Thahabu
I wanna listen to you talk for hours, taking comfort in the violin sound of your cute lisp. Or we could sit in silence, and I’ll become more mesmerized with the way you bat your curly eyelashes. 
I felt my insides spark like lightning when you sat next to me, a tingly feeling I haven’t experienced since high school. 
Why would anyone as beautiful as you cross an entire room to speak to a girl like me? Your skin looks like summer, and your hair, honey sprinkled with cinnamon. 
I just don’t know if I’m made up of the same sweet stuff. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/5/dear-diary-may-13-2016/3/
Fatma
I’m too scared to break out of my friend group like I planned to last week—there’s always college! So I’m still stuck with these people and I’ve started to be more observant. This girl who I hang out with attracts boys to her like honey does bees. My skin resembles cinnamon and my hair is a puffy frizz ball, at times; her hair is loosely curled and her complexion fair. I thought I didn’t care but I guess I do. It’s really painful when your friend is prettier than you. I like to be independent, but it would be a huge boost to my confidence boost if I could turn down a dating offer. I feel really confused as to why nobody likes me but I’m also stuck, because it’s not as if I really want anyone to like me. Well, maybe I do—preferably someone with curtains who looks like Shawn Hunter from the TV show Boy Meets World, but I would never want my dad to know that. Actually, I wouldn’t want anyone to know that.
All I look forward to is coming home from school. I listen to the Daydream album, one of my favourite CDs that I found at the thrift store. Mariah Carey’s voice blares out of the speakers. I look out of my bedroom window and up at the sky. It’s the perfect turquoise blue, just after the sun has set. It looks like water, but I soon realize that I’m crying, again. I’m always crying. I wish I could leave this realm—all it consists of is being picked on by my teachers when I don’t know the answer or listening to people make fun of Frida Kahlo for having thick eyebrows. Things are changing: My 14th birthday is close, the sky is starting to look different. Maybe there is some hope for me in this world. 
My tears are probably just blurring my vision again. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/5/dear-diary-may-16-2016/3/
Lilly
Two days. (Two days!)
There are two days of classes between me and my high school graduation. One paper to finish, a math project to showcase to my teacher—and only the former is even graded. 12 classes. One all-school assembly in our tiny, stuffy gym.
This summer I’ll work. I won’t start until after graduation, but I met my manager over the weekend and she said I’ll start clocking in sometime next week. “You’re only 17?” she demanded only moments after she first saw me. “I was expecting a little girl, not someone,” she gestured to my height and stance, “someone, I don’t know, fresh out of college!” I laughed it off, but thinking about it now, it’s a comfort to know that maybe I look more sure of myself than I really am.
This summer I’ll play, too. I made a friend who works at our local food co-op after he approached me and asked, a bit awkwardly, if I was the girl he had seen wearing a Real Madrid jersey around town. (I call that instant friendship, at least.) Now we stop to talk briefly every time we run into each other in the store, to the point where today I pulled him away from his job to tell him about the spectacular goal I scored in one of the last games of my high school career, an olímpico bent straight into the net from a corner kick. “That’s awesome,” he said, round-eyed. “Will you be playing this summer? We should hang out, go to the turf fields on campus.” He means it. I text my best friend and tell her I’ve found my 2-v-2 partner.
But until then, it’s two days.
(Two days!) ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/5/dear-diary-may-17-2016/3/
Simone
Everything is changing and I really don’t fucking like it. 
On Friday, the seniors left for the “Career Internship Program,” a parting gift from the school administration, in which 12th graders spend six weeks shadowing adults in their real-world jobs. For most seniors, this actually entails a very small amount of time filing and a much larger amount of time partying and sleeping. For me, this entails the realization of three things, which I shall detail below.
1. I am a senior soon, which means college soon, which means the end of all I currently know, soon. So far, the most significant educational and social transitions of my life have been “moving up” from 5th and 8th grade. When you are done with high school, there is no “moving up.” There is GRADUATION. Once high school is over, although a lot of people go on to be coddled for another four years by small liberal arts colleges (which I’ll be doing for sure), it’s GO time. I’d prefer an elongated yellow, please. 
2. I took my time with the seniors for granted. Because they were all only a year older than me, I always assumed friendships with them could be established in some future time, and put it off. Now all of the people I’d platonically admired are gone from the hallways. (This is my own personal reverse The Perks of Being a Wallflower.) There’s also something oddly comforting about not being “top dog.” Of course being “top dog” is the greatest feeling in the world, but it comes with a lot of responsibility—to be cool, rebellious, a leader. I can’t be burdened with such expectations. 
3. There are no cute boys left in the school. None. I don’t know what’s going to happen to me next year. 
So what am I going to do about this? Stop thinking about it. Genuinely. In order for me to fully appreciate what little time I have left to be a kid/be a kid comforted by the existence of older kids/to be a kid comforted by the existence of older kids who are cute boys, I just have to live in this time. Be present.
Next year is going to be weird and maybe bad, but I hope I’m an improved version of myself, because adolescence is all about gradual improvement and self-realization. And with the metaphorical end of my adolescence fast approaching, maybe my strife doesn’t come from the departure of my older peers, but rather my own fear that I won’t adapt fast enough. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/5/dear-diary-may-18-2016/3/
Kiana
My friends make me, no matter how I deny it. Some parts of me, some of my multitudes, are shaped by their characteristics, behaviors, and mannerisms. I noticed this one day when I spoke to the cashier at Dunkin’ Donuts the way my other friend would: a polite tone at the end of a sentence, but a firm and resolute strain in the voice that signals that matters are to be taken seriously. I love it, it’s as though I’m constantly carrying a piece of my friends with me.
The conversations I have with my friend C always touch on heartbreak and the nature of relationships. I was always one to demonstrate my feelings by way of “I feel…” and she’s one to listen, to give knowing nods, sometimes involving a bright-eyed blink, and an affirmative finger point. Thankfully, when we met one night to talk about our emotions, I’d read enough Roland Barthes to think and rationalize. Maybe I’m entranced by how Barthes so richly writes about love, pain, and absence in A Lover’s Discourse, or maybe I’m way too intoxicated by dreams of a boy from high school, but I am thankful for the way I talk about my feelings now. I’m racing through the pathways of my brain trying to find absolution, sometimes resolution, and doing so pragmatically.
My friends make me, and so do the books I read. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/5/dear-diary-may-19-2016/3/
Steffany
I’ve crash landed back home after spending all of Sunday packing my things. There was a stark difference between my side of the room and my roommate’s side. On the left side of the room, there seemed to be someone in the process of moving out who had not quite completed the task at hand. She’d brought with her huge suitcases and boxes, small enough to get past the “no additional furniture!” policy we’d been warned about, but large enough to house all of the trinkets needed to make Room F327 her home. There were huge wall decorations, including one that said, “Life is a Beautiful Ride.” It was supposed to serve as inspiration for someone whose life aspirations include becoming President of the United States. A corner of the room was a makeshift kitchen. Cutting boards, bowls, plates, and mugs. Knives, forks, spoons, and every other utensil sat semi-neatly in a red plastic box. She was definitely someone who used words like “humble” and “abode” in conjunction to describe the spaces she’d lived in. 
All it was to me was a space. I wasn’t the visionary my roommate was. I’d waited far too late to buy a bedspread, resulting in a navy blue and grey set. I opted for a stainless steel architect’s lamp. In hopes of making do with what I had, I decided to go with a “German Industrial” look for my room—less a concept and more an excuse when people asked me, condescendingly, why my side of the room looked that way. In all honesty, I never got comfortable. It was never my home. I always intended to put up posters and moodboards, even seeing if my friend who worked at the local theater could finesse me a Michael B. Jordan cardboard cutout. Point is, I never got around to decorating the place. Although, in a way, the stark differences between the right and left sides of the room were reflective of the people living there.
My roommate was able to get comfortable in ways I wasn’t. She quickly made friends, had alliances on the faculty, and was able to convert that little space into the fresh start she’d told me she needed. I had class with her my first semester and saw the way she was coddled by the professor. I soon became known solely as “her roommate.” During my mandatory one-on-one with our teacher, he talked about her the whole time. I was beginning to understand the, “you have to be twice as good as them to achieve half of what they have” sentiment. 
I was unable to articulate the gap in the way we were treated for the longest time! We’d have the same assignments and I’d watch professors bend over backwards in praise. My paper on leadership was about how I felt I was an inherent leader, that those values had long been instilled in me by my parents. Her paper on leadership was similar, about how her brush with leadership had happened long before the class we were taking. Comment on my paper? That I was abrasive in tone. I was crushed. I didn’t feel as if I was abrasive at all, I was actually excited to write about my upbringing and where I came from so that my professor would get a better understanding of who I was. Comments on her paper? “The best paper I’ve read thus far.” The reviews were in and she had 5/5 stars. 
While I felt deflated then, I’ve since had time to reflect. That’s one example from a long list of incidents I went through there. Attending a predominantly white school with people who’ve only dealt with black people in theory was weird. It’s like constantly saying out loud, “I don’t see color!” or whatever other colorblind ideologies would cancel out their (very clear) biases. As I emptied the contents of my drawers, I had a revelation. I was thankful for the experience. I had more weapons in my arsenal. I have a better understanding of how the world sees me. I’ve always valued my sense of self, knowing who I am has been an essential part of me getting along in the world. This whole experience has added an extra layer. Not every experience left me deflated! I learned to laugh and roll with the punches, a skill needed to survive. And survive I did. My only concern now is being the best. Whatever that means; it shifts weekly. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/5/dear-diary-may-20-2016/3/
Ananda
Five ways to win my heart.
1. Puns. Seriously, hit me with a good pun or innuendo and my knees weaken in approval. I will respond by shooting finger guns, or yelling “eyyyyyyy” rather loudly. 
2. Impress me with a knowledge of feminism. When someone tells me they’re not a feminist/womanist I automatically switch off and assume the worst of them. They might think they’re saying they believe in the equality of the sexes, but all I hear is “I don’t recognize the systematic oppression of women and minorities.” 
3. Be a musician or art student. Or, you know, just be passionate about something, anything (not murder). Passion is wonderful, and it shows that a person can care. 
4. Like food as much as me. I like to eat, a lot, so it’s always appreciated when another person likes to eat a lot too. All kinds of food, all the time.
5. Cats. Enough said. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/5/dear-diary-may-23-2016/3/
Cammy
I’m in such an awkward position right now!! I have two crushes, and it’s not awkward for them but it is weird for me. One crush is completely driven by lust; I don’t really know anything about this person. I’ve had a huge crush on the other person for a really long time. But I always seem to pick someone else over my longtime crush, which sucks because she’s really cool. And every time I pick someone else they end up being really bad people, and I don’t end up getting with them anyway. 
When will I finally just stop choosing people instead of her, because I like her a lot. And it’s super possible that she likes me back, but I still feel myself gravitating toward this other crush. It’s really just because I’m trying to “lose my virginity” before I turn 18, and this other crush could probably do that for me. (Plus, they’re a Scorpio, and Scorpio + Pisces = The Best Thing Ever, possibly?) I know I only want them for a sexual thing, but I still wouldn’t mind having an actual relationship with them. I don’t know. 
I’ve also been cautious because Mercury was in retrograde. Now that it’s not, though, I kinda don’t have any excuse not to initiate anything with them. School is ending soon, too, which means I have maybe two weeks to make a decent connection with them both, so that everything doesn’t go bust this summer. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/5/dear-diary-may-24-2016/3/
Keianna
We went to the elementary school I attended to let my younger brother and cousins play on the playground. They had a lot of energy and were honestly getting on my nerves. I threw my bag on the ground and looked over at my dad, then at my sisters. I never would have thought things would be this way.
This place feels like crying when my mom said we had to stop playing and go home for dinner. The soft clank of the tether ball chain against the pole reminds me of being terrified to play because I was once hit by the ball.
I lay back on the grass and wondered if this memory would stick with me as well.
I hope that my youngest brother has memories of this place. I’ll be old enough to take him places when he gets older. It’s nice to think that. He’s just a baby now, maybe he’ll eventually look up to me. I I’m a good role model. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/5/dear-diary-may-25-2016/3/
Alyson
“What I see is that the author Tim O’Brien, is using Mary Anne in The Things They Carried to make tangible the emotional changes happening within the men as they stay out in Vietnam. By witnessing the drastic switch in personality and behavior of Mary Anne, the men better understand the increased hardening of their own psyches while at war. Essentially, Mary Anne is a means for these characters—and the readers—to see more clearly what is happening to them, or has happened to them, internally.”
It wasn’t all about me but, of course, I thought it was. I suppose, in my defense, that I only had the capacity to think of myself, a burning building. What else could I do? It continued to be about me for a while. Secrets: Visits and breakfast pills and euphemisms. Being able to feel comfortable in this niche only began to pay off recently, because I am better now. I can appreciate it. That tends to happen right about the moment that you learn you have to share these souvenirs.
I still can’t believe…it. For as much as he is a jerk, it is painful for me to consider anyone else experiencing this void. My brother. We have always been in competition. Being the eldest, I have had the honor of being the parenting gerbil; he has been served the refined version. But even that couldn’t stop genetics, and perhaps pure evil, from infiltrating his sandy head. 
I don’t enjoy watching this. I didn’t expect my very own Mary Anne. I didn’t ship her out to Vietnam asking for a mirror to see what I thought was too far behind me to be seen. I even try to argue with myself about the parallels in what has happened, and is happening, to us. When looking with my eyes, I see that I am being followed down my path. Lucky for him, I took care of the thorny shrubbery lining the dirt trail on my journey here. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/5/dear-diary-may-26-2016/3/
Kiana
My cousins, Prince and Charles, are here for a visit. The news that they were coming was enough to make me shiver with anxiety for days. What am I gonna do? I want to make their stay worthwhile, pleasant, and enjoyable, but I am just a confused and anxiety-stricken person on her way to destruction. What am I gonna do?
It’s wild how my mind overtakes me. So far, I’ve made their stay fun. We roamed the city together, all the while carrying out little errands from elders. I recounted to them a story involving a cat, a snake, a dog, a bird, and a princess; I even earned my Cool Cousin badge by showing them how to pennyboard their way through the streets! Charles now has a new green Penny Board, which makes my old pink one (lent to me by Claire) look like a vintage item, shoe grease and all. In our cooldown times I made them watch Wes Anderson movies, plus the Batman series directed by Christopher Nolan. Uh-oh, my agenda to turn them Super Nerdz is showing up! WELP.
This family fun is all in conjunction with my grandmother’s 70th birthday, which is underway. Everyone’s busy, clamoring about with all the preparations. I, on the one hand, have proven myself a person of little to no use at all. With June coming up, which means enrollment time, and the dreaded back-to-school, I am filled to the brim (overflowing, even) with anxiety and fear, which shows up as lethargy and, in my relatives’ eyes, sloth.
As for my love-hate relationship with my body and my mind, I’m taking measures that I know will quiet the voices negging me out. These include asking a friend from high school to jog with me.; forgetting to write my to-do lists but not castigating myself for it; remembering to write my to-do lists and rewarding myself for it; buying Amy Rose Spiegel’s new book, Action, directly on its release date! Lastly, lighting candles (red, purple, white, green), reading books and making some shameful margin annotations. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/5/dear-diary-may-27-2016/3/
Alyson
Why do my fingers always smell like frosting? How do I tether myself to the Earth so that I can deal with things such as answering emails? At what point will people stop yelling at me, then tell me they’re not yelling at me?
“Your honor?”
“Answer the question, Miss.”
When will Google be able to tell me if it’s safe for me to wear a dress today? Sub-question: What’s the difference between a wind and a “gust”? How many people have seen my underwear—more than my underwear? By admitting that you have seen my underwear, we can assume that you were following me past the science building, the windiest part of campus?
“Your honor, objection—speculation!”
“Yes, is there a question in there, Miss?”
Rephrase: Were you following me past the science building? In fact, were you behind me every day at school? And if so, why didn’t you comment on my new ’70s-inspired panties? ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/5/dear-diary-may-30-2016/3/
Marah
Everyone has distinct mannerisms, and no matter how much you might try to hide them, your personality and character come to the surface in certain situations. As my grandmother used to say, “Character develops in early childhood and never changes.”
When I arrived in Switzerland I was in bad physical and psychological shape. My decision to get married was an attempt to find security and stability. I was scared and felt lost because I didn’t know the language, the traditions or even the streets. My husband—let’s call him Karam—made me feel safe. At the time, I thought I’d never be able to survive without him. I followed him and his ways without questioning anything.
But today, five months later, my personality is gradually coming back to the surface. I agree with him sometimes, and I disagree with him at other times. I am not that scared little girl anymore. The independent woman in me is alive again and, being his wife, I have the right to have a say in every little decision regarding our life and future. Needless to say, this transformation has stunned my husband, who had gotten used to my saying yes to all his plans and decisions.
My recent empowerment has led to disagreements and even some arguments between us. I understand that after months of marriage he had grown accustomed to my being weak, but I cannot continue to play that role. I cannot hide the real me anymore. I have realized my strength as I’ve slowly begun assimilating into my new life and society. I now speak some German, and I can interact with the society around me; my language skills have drastically reduced my dependence on my husband.
I guess Karam finds it hard to understand me, and I do not blame him. Frankly, I find it hard to understand myself sometimes. We haven’t been together enough for that, and we definitely need more time to get to know each other deeply. It is not a big deal—he is a good man, and he will eventually understand what I am looking for. I also know that I can and should do some work on my end to allow us to grow closer to one another and to build a strong family. I am sure that I can do that work, life has taught me a lot already.
That’s enough about my husband. I have just moved to a higher language class. German, I believe, is not a hard language, but studying it requires time and consistency. I can now introduce myself in German, buy things and deal with stores and sellers and conduct simple conversations with my friends. Unfortunately, I still find it hard to read mail, but my neighbors help with that. I can’t wait to master German, so that I can finally continue with my studies in prosthetics. I hope that through my studies, I will one day be able to help people in Syria.
I have been taking good care of my health. The little one inside me is healthy, too, and is starting to move a lot. Maybe he’s destined to become a soccer player, or perhaps he keeps kicking me because I was not happy with my pregnancy in the beginning. This baby has given me hope and life. I never imagined that a baby I’ve not yet met could give me such feelings. I saw the baby on the screen during my last visit to the doctor’s office. My husband and I were unbelievably excited. Karam can’t believe that he will become a father soon.
Motherhood is a simply amazing thing. I have so much love for this little baby–despite being physically exhausted. I can’t even find words to describe my feelings. I just can’t. Because of this little human being inside me, I now better understand my mother’s strength.
It is interesting how children, even before they are born, change their parents’ lives, goals, and ambitions. I know that I refer to the baby as a boy, but this does not mean that I would prefer a baby boy. It is just a habit. However, my husband, as an Eastern man, would definitely prefer to have a boy. I honestly dislike that mentality, and I get upset by such ideas. In my family, there is no difference between the boys and the girls. But there are people who prefer boys over girls, although they are equal in all religions. Also, the Syrian crisis has proven that women are no less than men, and that they can compete with them in political, intellectual, and military fields. In fact, I believe that some women are stronger than men. This is what I believe. ♦
Marah’s diary is produced in collaboration with Syria Deeply, a digital news outlet covering the Syrian crisis. It has been translated from Arabic.
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/5/dear-diary-may-31-2016/3/
Cammy
I’ve been feeling really, really bored with my life recently. I’ve run out of things to do. I know using my phone is a weird example but I only use five apps on my phone even though I probably have between 50 and 70. I don’t know, it just feels like I’ve done everything and it’s weird. I don’t really like reading as much as I used to, which is weird because I love reading. But this whole year, all the reading I’ve done was assigned and I feel dissuaded from reading. I also haven’t really been all that crafty. People always say I’m so crafty but even making zines feels kinda forced and I LOVE making zines. I don’t think I’ve done everything there is to do with crafting, but I usually just don’t have the time or money to do the things I wanna do. I also feel like I haven’t really been happy with the music I’m listening to. I’m listening to the same stuff I’ve been listening to for the past six months. I don’t really mind listening to Alex G almost every day but I can only listen to “Trick” so often. I’m in super desperate need for something new, and I don’t really care what that new thing is I just want to not be stuck in this super boring routine. I know that in a couple weeks I’ll be out of school and that’ll give me more time and freedom, yet I also know it’s super possible that I just won’t do anything and I’ll be really sad and bored. Asking people to hang out is always scary for me because I’m so scared of getting rejected. I don’t really know where I got that from but I don’t know I want to do these new things but I’m not putting myself out there! So I’m really frustrated with myself. I hope eventually I’ll just have some huge epiphany and I won’t be this way anymore. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-1-2016/3/
Fatma
I dream of ways to tell my classmates that Islamophobia is not OK.
Throughout all of my years in school, I have always known the value of my rights. Although I have problems retaliating to bullies, I have always stood up for myself when someone was making fun of my culture or my beliefs. Recently, I was in a situation where I felt extremely uncomfortable. In English class, we had to write about what we would do if we had to sell our son to the devil. I felt like the teacher was making a joke but she wasn’t. And I knew I definitely wasn’t OK with writing about the devil in this way. It made me feel weird; I felt like my words could be given the wrong type of power and they may become a reality. So, instead of doing the work, I wrote an essay on how the curriculum is corrupt and how I didn’t think that the devil was an acceptable topic in an English class full of depressed teenagers who want to talk about stabbing each other. 
Weeks later, people in my school are talking about how I fought the system. It’s a great feeling to know that I’ve made an imprint on my school, but I have a feeling that I’ll be sent to the principle’s office very soon. 
Basically, if I had ever heard anyone making fun of me because I’m a Muslim, I know I couldn’t sit there and take it. And this is where the problem started for me. In my religious education class, my teacher taught a lesson that hit home. She showed us videos of UK politicians making fun of Muslims and immigrants, and the viral video of an innocent Muslim woman in a hijab being pushed onto train tracks, because the man who did it felt “threatened” by her presence. I was excited that my teacher was attempting to make the other students recognize that not all Muslim people are killers. 
But when she asked the question, “Is it OK to be Islamophobic?” I was shocked with what I had heard from my class. The room full of privileged, white teenagers all answered with a clear and crisp “yes!” They proceeded to explain how it’s OK to be Islamophobic if they are scared. My teacher shot a look at me and saw the tears developing in my eyes. Once class was over, she told me to stay behind so that I could speak to her. She told me that I shouldn’t let these comments from the class affect me. I replied by telling her how I thought she was really cool for breaking out of the curriculum and planning a lesson like this. 
But to add to this, a specific girl in my class gossipped to her friend about how that teacher was racist. It angered me to hear that a white girl had the nerve to say a teacher was being racist toward her. It annoyed me to know that when just one lesson wasn’t focused on her culture, she was quick to point fingers. Just because she felt uncomfortable, she thought she could get away with saying something like this. She must have forgotten about the times when her and her friends have ignored me because I didn’t engage in English culture. She must have forgotten about those times when her friends would jokingly shout “allahu akbar,” making fun of the words that mean God is the greatest. I felt even more crazy when my own friend went and said that she agreed with this girl!
I don’t care if I have to stand on my own in this argument. I’m sick of being the person who is constantly being pointed at for believing in Islam. I wish my classmates would realize that not all Muslims are terrorists and that not all immigrants will take their jobs. It’s really frustrating for me to think about. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-4-2016/3/
Keianna
Saturday can only be described as slightly disappointing. Not so disappointing that the day was a complete flop, just disappointing enough for my best friend and I to make jokes and blame each other. 
Usually art museums are my thing; I get lost in the art and couldn’t be happier about it. I’m sad to say that I can’t say the same of the museum we decided to visit. It may have been the pretentious older people who scoffed when we walked in and avoided us as we tried to take in the art. We were met with dirty looks when we attempted to discuss, in whispers, the meaning of a particular piece that had caught our eye. I rolled my eyes when a stranger whispered to her companion that they should really make the museum open only to people 18 and over. We eventually left, stopping momentarily at the gift shop before realizing the mugs in our hands were priced at $700. 
We stopped next at a small garden which I believed to be the most beautiful and relaxing place on earth. The obligatory Snapchats were taken. We sat on a bench and looked at the fish. We talked about life. We got hungry and set off to find food.
There were many failed attempts before we decided on a place to eat. An hour of walking brought us to a restaurant where you have to slide your tray down the line and tell the servers what you want cafeteria style. This was not convenient for two teens with anxiety, and drove us both to returning trays and exiting awkwardly. 
We ended up at a restaurant that some YouTubers call the holy grail of vegan eating. We complained about the mac and cheese being spicy, but praised the strawberry lemonade. People walking by were happy and sometimes waved. 
“My horoscope says that today isn’t going to be what I expected but still a lot of fun.”
Well, that makes a lot of sense. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-5-2016/3/
Kiana
The worst thing about trying to forget memories with people, is the regret that plagues you. I loathe this feeling of heaviness in my chest, lead-like. As if every single heartbeat corresponds to every friend I have lost due to my recklessness and insincerity. I cried in my room when I saw Durga Chew-Bose’s tweet: 
love friends who can say "don't involve me" to each other and it doesn't become a thing
— Durga Chew-Bose (@durgapolashi) April 2, 2016
I know I’m never going to have that kind of friend, and I’m not even going to pretend to find The One friend anymore. I accept the fact that I’m meant to just…float. Without anyone to hold my hand just because. My grandmother used to warn me that I’d never have a support system because of my persona and general disposition. I was apathetic to that statement then, but now I believe her.
In an effort to stay “off the grid” and unencumbered, I finally made the move to delete my Facebook account. I’ve had it deactivated for months now, and just last week I was woken up by the thought of getting out. Though this move may seem shallow to the untrained observer, for me it is huge. This is an important act of self-care. For once, I’ll give myself the liberty of not responding to the counter-speech directed at me by people I call friends, who—if I’m being honest—are like strangers.
My way may not be the highway, but I know I’m getting somewhere. 
This is how I know that I’m full of shit. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-6-2016/3/
Thahabu
I didn’t like boys in high school. I hooked up with them, not because I thought they were cute, but because they fit the ideal type my friends and other girls fawned over. I’d pretend to agree whenever they talked about the appeal of the boys they liked. It was the conventionally attractive guys, with wide chiseled jaw and abs. And if they were non-black or light-skinned, that was like finding the the holy grail of men. I felt strange and indifferent while they had these conversations, because I didn’t feel the same way. I didn’t care about abs or how “exotic” a guy looked, yet I had still never seen a guy that made my heart do backflips. I didn’t have the words to describe this feeling back then, and as result people started to label me and ask, “Thahabu are you confused or just gay? Because I never see you with a boy.” It didn’t help that I preferred to wear jeans more than dresses and I was never clever when it came to drama. I was the girl willing to yell if someone was bullying me, never whispering or starting rumors like I was expected to. I often wondered, Was I missing something? Why didn’t the sight of a guy’s abs make me hot and stumble over my words like it did my friends? I started believing what was projected onto me and, toward the end of high school, I identified as someone who liked girls.
It wasn’t until I went to a festival in the summer of 2013 that I discovered what my perfect guy looks like. I looked up and saw a tall man with wild hair, high defined cheekbones, a strong chin, and a smile that could light the whole world with world peace. In that moment, I knew what I liked and what I wanted. I wasn’t what others had labeled me. I had simply never seen a man I wanted until that moment—at the ripe age of 17 at Afropunk. Newly able to identify what I did and didn’t like, I looked back on my previous interactions with men and thought, Oh, that totally wasn’t my type, that was the exact opposite. I also realized that every time I talked to a guy when I was younger, I’d been subconsciously trying to impress my friends even if I never told them about the guy. I’m over trying to meet those expectations, but now I face a whole new stigma because I’ve still never been in a relationship.
My understanding of my sexuality hasn’t stopped others from trying to deny my femininity. Now that i know my tastes and what I want, I’m completely comfortable pursuing friends with benefits with people I’m attracted to. I haven’t met that special someone, and I have no desire to. It’s not that I’m against romantic relationships, I just don’t search for or stress over them. And, boy, do my friends and family give me slack for this. My family asks where’s my boyfriend at, and my friends are always like, “Girl, you’re just a player.” While I know my dear friends are joking, I’ve noticed that the terms they throw at me—player and fuckboy—usually apply to men. In fairness to them, this may be because some of my trysts with girls have ended in them developing feelings for me. My low self-esteem means that this invariably comes as a surprise to me, and I’ve had to explain that the feeling isn’t mutual while they cry and/or scream at me. I honestly never thought I’d be a “heartbreaker”; I always pictured people constantly breaking up with me. Regardless, I don’t think I should be viewed as someone who plays with people’s emotions or as someone who uses women. If I had broken men’s hearts people would probably be praising me like, “Yaaaas, girl! Boys ain’t shit. Fuck ’em.” But because some of my situationships end in romantic casualties I’m suddenly cold and heartless—and less of woman. 
Lately I’ve been internalizing these opinions. I shamed myself for not being able to appreciate romantic relationships, as if I’m gross for enjoying casual sex. I wouldn’t call these criticisms of me slut shaming. People seem to be OK with me having casual sex, the problem is they also expect me to harbor this fantasy of finding the perfect one, and to at least have relationships under my belt at 19 going on 20, which I do not. They also don’t like that boys and girls have called me yelling, trying to convince me that we belong together. That destroys their image of me as a typical girl archetype, cowering in sadness after a breakup or having been deceived. Somehow, I’m some hypersexual emotional traitor. 
Last summer, I was talking with my friend Madison about her relationship woes. The conversation switched to my sexual escapades and she casually commented with a laugh, “Oh, Thahabu you just don’t like anybody.” Her lighthearted tone was comforting and validating, confirming that my preference for friends with benefits is just as normal and healthy as someone who pines for a romantic relationship.
I don’t think I lead people on. I’m very in tune with my emotions and I don’t go back in forth with them. If I like someone I’ll tell them: I don’t give them hints or show them with my actions until that’s said. When I think back on the people who developed feelings for me then treated me like the Loch Ness Monster for not reciprocating I still get confused, because I honestly don’t give them much to like. People tend to talk to me—they tell me their life stories and secrets, and I don’t mind listening or offering comfort. But I’m not open in that same respect, I don’t tell them too much about myself. So what is it about me that makes them expect me to love them? I shout, “You don’t even know me! If I’m a player, if I lead you on, then how did I finesse you into liking me?” I haven’t provided them with anything besides a pretty face and free therapy, and that leads me back to thinking that they like the idea of me, which I hate with a burning passion of five million fires. 
My low self-esteem makes me think I don’t have the right to “dump” someone. So just like Cardi B on the song “Sauce Boys,” I start making up excuses for why they shouldn’t like me, or doing things to turn them off so they’ll end the relationship themselves and feel somewhat in control of the situation. Just like Cardi says “Listen, I’m a hoe,” I’ll pretend like I’m talking to someone other than them—giving them a little push in the “Leave Thahabu the fuck-alone” direction. But they still don’t get it, and when I’m clear about how I feel I still turn out to be the bad guy. I guess that’s how I end up in the player category. 
I’m trying not care anymore: I know what my intentions are and that I would never hurt someone on purpose. And if me not dreaming about a relationship makes me strange that’s fine, too. I know what I want and I’m not ashamed of it. I don’t use people for sex like Cardi says in the song, but I do understand her annoyance with the men she’s singing about. Especially those whose intention is to play a girl because they get a rise out of it. Take for example, this one guy I used to talk to. When we met he was doing this really heavy, almost predatory flirting with me; I could tell he just wanted to fool around. But then, over the weeks, he’d text me in this really romantic, pretentious, poetic voice when I already knew he was just trying to get in my pants! The last time he texted me some fake-deep crap I really wanted to text back like, “Are you just trying to hit or nah? Are you gonna keep sending me poems or just be real? Cuz I see through all the bullshit.” 
Maybe being raised by a raised single dad who taught me all about the games men play gave me a sixth sense, and maybe that’s why I’m not hellbent on rushing into a relationship. Like Cardi B says, “I don’t be stressing them / I swear I just flex on them.” ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-7-2016/3/
Britney
The book on wild women tells me how to stop the predator mid-advance. I cut off all my hair and I am harder to grab. My curls are always on the defensive. But they aren’t tendrils of lilim yet; my fury is manual for now. I’ve accepted staying in the waiting room for growth to practice my patience. I think I’m doing well.
I forget a lot. I forgot this diary and I forgot that assignment and this one and oh! My headphones are at home. I don’t have to forget scrunchies anymore. There is fault in every reprieve but I have hope for One Day. One Day always changes, but right now it is the talk of after high school that no longer scares me and loses its clinical feeling as it gets closer and I pull more people from my orbit into it with me. The great expanse that may or may not let me down. But I’ll get there. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-8-2016/3/
Cammy
Going to an Alex G/Porches concert with my best friend Dionisia is probably the best thing that’s happened recently. I really love Alex G!!! 
The visual diarist Briana G told me about him (a boy on Tinder told me about him too, but that’s a different story) and I listened to his most recent album Beach Music first. It was just so good—I liked everything about his sound. It’s kinda weird how fast I formed a connection to his songs; In a short time they came to mean a lot to me. His home recording process makes the music feel more relatable, or accessible. The work he puts into making his music really comes through when you’re listening to it, which makes the experience more intimate. I feel close to him. 
I’ve been wondering for a really long time whether he’s an Aquarius or a Pisces. Since I’m a Pisces, I was hoping he was a Pisces too, since I feel like I understand him. For example, my favorite song on Beach Music is “Walk,” and in his interview with Rookie he said HIS favorite song is “Walk,” which is like, OK obviously me and him are the same person to an extent. 
Anyways, the concert was super cool. I ran into some internet pals and talked with them which is a whole other experience in itself. At concerts like these, I get really anxious because there’s a certain look you have to have, and I always worry that I don’t look the part. And, if there are any other black people out there who go to these kinds of shows, you know how you feel that you really have to dress like you belong because you’re probably the only black person there? Well, my outfit was good and so was my hair and makeup so I felt pretty confident about being there! 
A combination of me connecting to Alex G’s music, my stellar outfit, and Dio’s encouragement gave me the confidence to ask him after the show if he was an Aquarius or a Pisces. He said he’s an Aquarius which makes a lot of sense: That must be why I feel like I know him, because although I’m a Pisces I’m also Aquarius dominant. This entry has ended up just being me rambling about astrology, which I’m always doing: It’s just really interesting to me. My main point is that I’m really glad I got to see Alex G. And talk to him about astrology. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-11-2016/3/
Steffany
I’ve been thinking a lot about being productive. Finding a balance between work and play is difficult. Rather, work and work. Except it’s work I like versus work I don’t like. College (no surprise) falls under the work I don’t like. I need to stop viewing that way, though. I have to just milk the experience for what it’s worth and move on. Recently, when I tried to switch my major to design, the woman who runs the program told me she wouldn’t let me switch in until I proved myself. In a weird way, this was a wake up call that I should be doing what I’m supposed to. 
I got a job at an app company! It’s great. I pride myself on being able to handle my business (although there’s room for improvement), but I was a little disappointed that people thought they could get over on because I’m young. I don’t see myself as some baby; I’m a contemporary of the elders I work with. Last night, I thought I’d be embraced by a fellow black woman in the office, one of the few that work here. Instead, I got a really rough handshake and a bunch of condescending and rude commentary about how 19 is nothing, and by extension so was I. 
I told her not to be threatened by us being in the same place at two completely different ages. I don’t let being the resident young person bother me, although, some of the changes have ruffled a few feathers. Being young is an asset, most times anyway. As in, if this seems like it may not work how I thought, I can jump ship. I’m not tied down to any specific thing, and I like it that way. To others, that’s not such a positive thing. I’m coming into that age when I’m supposed to semi know, or have a clue of what I want to do. And I don’t. Whatever. 
I know I like working, I enjoy self-sufficiency, I enjoy freelancing and networking. I know I want to work within the arts. In what capacity, who knows? I’ve been thinking about curating a Kelis tribute show or retrospective on campus. Maybe doing my own podcast. I know the market is oversaturated, but I’m interesting! I have a lot to say. I was going to curate a newsletter to come out before the podcast so that listeners could know what we were addressing before the show dropped. It could be about any and everything. I was playing with the idea of interviewing Robbie Myers, Editor-in-Chief at Elle about her decision to have black women on the covers back-to-back-to-back. These are all just ideas, and I don’t want to be bite off more than I can chew. However, being busy, being engaged with the world in one way or another, gives me a sense of purpose. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-12-2016/3/
Lilly
They are better than us technically, playing from foot to foot with an ease that we can’t match, not yet; and they tell us that we can’t do it. With 20 minutes left we concede the first goal of the game and for a single, gutting moment immediately thereafter, we believe them.
But we rally. It isn’t our first time trying to come back from a deficit. Things start clicking; we don’t have the finesse that they do but our strength is in our fluidity, in trying new approaches, working as a single unit. We press them harder, earn a corner kick. I’m a defensive player, meant to hang back, but as my teammate starts towards the ball I sprint forward, making a diagonal run across the face of our opponents’ goal. Their captain screeches my number—17—a defender turns her head and loses sight of one of our forwards for a split second—the ball soars in and that forward meets it in midair, hammering it into the back of the net. Into the back of the net!
Everyone is screaming. I run at my teammate with arms outstretched and she leaps at me, arms around my neck and legs around my waist. We’re both laughing as I spin her, the crowd is in uproar, our coach is shouting for us to, “Get back, let’s go, let’s get another!” from the sideline. And we have the momentum, so we do. And a third. When the final whistle blows we’ve made history again, beating this team for the first time since our school’s program began.
My mother is giddy. “The other team’s parents, Lilly, you should have seen their faces,” she says later. “They thought you’d be an easy win. They were gloating the whole time. But those first two goals, those shut them up.”
And the third was just the nail in the coffin, I think. But what matters is that we won. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-13-2016/3/
Cammy
My week was weird. I had a good dream about a boy in some of my classes who isn’t the same boy as the one I have a crush on. And like as much as I liked the old crush, after one dream that I can’t even remember that well, I almost completely forgot about him and started liking this new boy! 
I felt that I should feel guilty, so I asked my friends, “How fake am I for developing this fully fledged crush on this new boy in 24 hours and dropping the boy I’ve had a crush on for months and months?” 
One of my friends said super simply, “You’re a teenage girl! Just like the rest of us.” 
It was so comforting! Because I AM a teenage girl and I’ve been feeling so weird with my sexuality. I’m still identifying as queer and I’ve only just recently started having real crushes on boys—I’ve been wondering what’s wrong with me. But there’s nothing wrong with me! I’m a teenage girl: I don’t know everything and I’m learning about myself. Not as in “I’m learning from my mistakes,” but just understanding that I am in a stage of constant growth. That’s so nice to keep in mind when I’m not so sure about everything. Maybe thinking about life in this way will be helpful to other people who aren’t so sure about growing up. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-14-2016/3/
Keianna
Beyond myself there are words. A series of letters with meaning, or no meaning, depending on the person you ask. Let’s get the clichéd, everyday words out the way first. Those such as love, happiness, and adventure. I have to admit I have a soft spot for words like these. I like to slip them into the awkward, we-just-met moments to see how the conversation flips and turns into something entirely new. They’re tough subjects, so entirely new can mean the other person gets really into telling me their experiences or shies away and I’m left feeling like maybe I shouldn’t have structured my sentences and words in a way that scared them off. I don’t worry about it a lot. They’re just words.
There are words that inspire an angsty form of creativity in me. I feel like I should tattoo them on my body as conversation starters. They are words that inspire new words. The Dictionary of Obscure Sorrows does a good job of coining these. Jouska describes the “hypothetical conversation that you compulsively play out in your head.” Imaginary words that may come into play later, if you’re not too shy. Exulansis is giving up on talking about your past experiences because others are unable to relate. Words that get left unspoken.
Anecdoche is a conversation in which “everyone is talking but no one is listening.” This might inspire exulansis. I stopped using my words. I don’t want them to affect how people think of those clichéd, everyday words. Someone else’s perspective of love, happiness, and adventure shouldn’t be marred by their experience with me. I worry about it way too much. Words are important. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-15-2016/3/
Fatma
I’ve been feeling really blocked, recently. My honest feelings are that I’m disappointed with my situation. I’m unhappy in school but I feel wonderful at home. However, I spend most of my time at school, and when I’m at home, my brain is full of thoughts about school. I feel so drained. When I think about the role of fate, I think of the word “why.” Why do I live here? Why do these things happen to me? I find it crazy to know that the choices I make won’t affect my fate. It doesn’t matter if I do or don’t leave the house because the way I die is predetermined. I personally believe it was written in the stars. But there are some positive things happening, too. I’ve been watching episodes of Boy Meets World, and watching Rush Hour over and over again. 
I don’t really care how easily things like shows and films and Missy Elliott songs make me happy. At least I feel a bit better about my life. I owe it all to them. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-18-2016/3/
Cammy
Last week, my mom took me to her favorite spiritual-energy-crystal store to find a stone that would help with the anxiety issues I’ve been having. We looked around and she found some smoky quartz, which is really good for getting rid of bad energy like anxiety.
Ever since I was diagnosed with ADHD this past summer, I’ve been taking meds to help me focus. My first marking-period grades were really good, and I assumed that was because of my medication. But later, my grades weren’t all that because I kept not doing my homework. Homework is my biggest issue, and even though I take this stuff to help me focus, I still have huge issues getting it done. 
A couple of weeks ago, I was running late for school and forgot to take my meds. I noticed that it wasn’t super hard to do my work, just I was a little fidgety. When I got to my English class, my impulses weren’t totally under control so I was speaking out a lot. That may sound like a bad thing, but after class my teacher came up to me like, “Cammy you seemed really I focused today and you participated a ton!” And I was like, What????, because I literally stopped taking the meds that were supposed to help me focus! I also noticed that I didn’t have as much anxiety when it came to talking to people I consider cooler than me. That could be because my meds are stimulants, which can make me more anxious. Since I didn’t have that anxiety and I was acting more impulsively it was SUPER easy to talk to these cool people. Now I’m wondering if I should really even be taking these meds, because in the past couple of weeks my grades have gotten really good and I’ve been interacting with these cool kids WAY more. I hung out with them for the first time on Friday. 
I know it’s bad to just stop taking your meds, but mine aren’t habit-forming so I’m guessing it’s not the same as me totally dropping antidepressants or something. Given that homework is a bigger issue for me, I may try taking my meds at a different time of day. so that they work for after school—I don’t necessarily need their effects during school. I’m hoping that I’ll be able to work out a method so that I don’t have bad anxiety and I’m able to keep my grades up. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-19-2016/3/
Simone
I know trying to follow a plan is useless and impossible and sometimes more detrimental to the course of your life than any unplanned misstep, but what’s the harm in simply having one? Seemingly tangible fantasies help me dream at night.
In 10 years I will be 27 years old. Brian Jones and Kurt Cobain and Jimi Hendrix and Janis Joplin all died at 27, but hopefully I won’t. Truthfully, they were all a lot more famous at 27 than I’d ever like to be. I guess that’s most important.
At 27, I will only be a little bit famous. Fame garners respect and notability. Respect and notability get you places in society. Ideally, I will be some sort of artist, so the visibility that comes with fame could be important too. But I don’t want to end up experimenting with harder drugs, having some sort of legal hiccup, and having to apologize to my younger audiences the next morning via Facebook. That kind of fame is invasive and scary. It includes high expectations and challenging obstacles. (Kind of like growing up.)
How will I be a little bit famous by 27? I’ll start off with a thankless job writing for TV. This environment will be predominantly male, but rather than shrivel under the weight of The Patriarchy, I will rise, as my sisters Liz Lemon and Mary Tyler Moore have. In my free time, I will write screenplays and shop them. My written stories will go on to the screen, and then to festivals, garnering awards and praise, but not enough to make me a household name. (Just kidding! What screenwriter is a household name?) Teenage girls will read my Wikipedia page and be inspired. My male peers will hide their jealousy, but not well enough to evade my bullshit sensor. (That’s another thing about future Simone. Her bullshit sensor is going to be amazing.)
I will live in New York City. New York City is the best city in the world. And yes, maybe I’ve lived in a 15-mile radius of and around New York City for my entire life, but I don’t think my opinion is biased. I’m probably not going to be able to afford Manhattan or Brooklyn, and Queens is going to be gentrified before I know it. Probably the Bronx and Staten Island, too. (I might actually be screwed on this front.) But that can be pondered later. The world has time to change to fit my needs.
I will have the best friends ever. I know this because I’ve heard grown-up friendships are like high school friendships, except a lot more options and lot less guilt about dropping deadbeats. This excites me. I’ve done well in high school friendships so far, but with more options and less guilt, I can’t begin to fathom how amazing things will be. At 27, I will club, party, read, brunch, jog, dinner party, binge watch, swim, bathe, dance, sing, with the best people ever.
I need to ensure that at 27 I don’t constantly say things like “I’m so old” or “I’m so close to 30.” Yes, 27 is kind of old! But why waste all that time stating what is already clear to everyone? And why waste three years complaining about being 30 before it even happens? I’m going to be the least annoying twenty-something that ever existed.
And finally, boys. There will be so many boys. Excuse me—men. It will have started in college, my professors, Division III athletes, T.A.s, Marxist fuckbois, et cetera. And then I’ll make it to the city, and there will be endless possibilities, of which I’ll make great use. I won’t go into detail here because I plan to lead a spontaneous and casual sex life and outlining it would go against the point. 
Maybe outlining anything goes against the point. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-20-2016/3/
Thahabu
My family loves telling me that I am the spitting image of my mother. I take great pride in being likened to her beauty, because I truly do believe she was one of the most beautiful women to ever walk this earth—and I’m not just saying that because she’s my mom! But lately, I don’t think I resemble the smiling, lipstick-clad woman making divaesque poses in the photos around my house. Though I know we’re all human and don’t always look or act our best, my idea of my mother is that she was the perfect woman. The best mother, wife, friend—a generous human being who embodied womanhood. I chose to make this idea of her a standard I should work toward every day of my life, something I can only dream to achieve. 
It wasn’t until this week when my sister posted a close up of my mother beside a picture of me with the caption “I tell you my sister is my mother’s twin!” that I stopped having this finite view of her. This was the first photo I had seen where my mother wasn’t smiling—in fact her expression was almost the opposite. She wasn’t made up, or sporting lustrous jewelry and her classic red lipstick. She looked tired, her almond eyes surprised, and her mouth slightly open in a “I know you not taking a picture of me right now, while I feel like this” kind of way. I found the uncropped version of the photo: In it my mother is brushing my sister’s hair, and my sister is a baby, maybe seven months old. My mother didn’t look any less beautiful than she does in her more glamorous pictures. She looked like she was in her everyday state—in her home where she was happiest, wearing her night scarf, a big white T-shirt, with hoop earrings, and a short Nefertiti necklace—happy to be an exhausted mom and just trying to brush her baby’s hair until someone decided to take an off-guard shot of her. There was beauty in her weariness, in being done and relaxed. That was probably the only peace she’d be getting for the day as a stay-at-home mom.
Before seeing this photo. I related to my mother’s personality more than I did her appearance: When people described her I realized where I got my giving nature and hunger for fun from. Looking at that picture, I suddenly knew what people were talking about when they called me beautiful or complimented my looks. I have a similar expression to the one my mom had in the picture, when I’m writing or just sitting down deep in meaningless thoughts and someone decides to do or say do something ridiculous around me. That’s how I look when I’m trying to find tranquility, but can’t get all the way there so I’ll just accept a fraction of it and savor it while I can. 
All of my softest features come from my mother. I have a love-hate relationship with my big lips, but I really did inherit them from my mother, and for that I’m thankful—she is beautiful and that means I am also beautiful. For the first time I saw the twinkle in my eye in selfies that I thought were ugly. I get it. I shouldn’t be so skeptical of people who appreciate the way I look. They don’t all have ill intentions, and I should be pleased that they see the gifts that my mother blessed me with. It has taken me such a long time to notice them for myself.
This year has worn me out and I know I haven’t been looking my best, but this picture showed that there’s nothing wrong with that. I’m still beautiful and of value when I feel like I want to rip the world in half. It’s totally fine for me to take time for myself and look on in “what the hell are you doing” awe when someone jokingly disturbs my peace. 
My anxiety is very much connected to my being a perfectionist, and after seeing that old photo I’m not so obsessed with being perfect. I’m not sure why I ever thought my mother was perfect, when I love the imperfections in everyone else around me. My sister wants us to go visit our relatives on my mother’s side of the family—I hope they have more pictures of her looking like that. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-21-2016/3/
Keianna
When I was in the third grade I was obsessed with miracle fish. They’re basically mood rings in plastic fish form, what’s not to love? The idea that the little fish seemed to know how I was feeling was amazing to me, which goes to show how lonely I was.
If you knew me at the time you’d probably think there was no way for me to be lonely. Along with my grandma, aunt, and uncle there were seven children around my age living in our house at the time. There was a huge garage-like building behind it that used to be the newspaper headquarters for our small city. That summer, we dragged our trundle beds into it and “camped out.” Whenever I got a minute to myself I’d go in there to cry.
Back to the miracle fish: I got mine during a party at school. One of my classmates dutifully placed one on each of our desks and I was in awe from the time I picked it up. The way it flipped and twisted in my hand to tell me that I was nervous was pure magic.
The day my father came to move me and my siblings back home after a year of living with my mother, I turned into a completely different version of myself. This version no longer needed the close friend that my little miracle fish had become, and I left it in the garage-like structure by mistake. By the time I realized it was gone, I didn’t feel like I needed it anymore.
I left my little miracle fish around this time, years ago. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-22-2016/3/
Fatma
Throughout my life, I’ve had people tell me that women are less than men, and I haven’t even been alive for very long. People tell me that the WNBA is not as good as the NBA, and that I probably can’t name more than three good female rappers (I definitely can: Queen Latifah, Yo-Yo, MC Lyte, Left Eye, Da Brat, etc.). I’ve realized how weird it is that some things have been constantly drilled into our minds, to the point where we think these things are right. 
I have always struggled to understand why it was assumed my brother wouldn’t shave his legs but I would. I have never understood why at the age of 10—although I was still a child—I had to stop wearing shorts above my knees because it was deemed unsuitable. I still don’t understand why girls are made fun of for having natural facial hair, or for not threading their eyebrows. Why are girls brought up to think that diamonds are their best friend, and not that they can be their own best friend? This all relates to my absolute hate for the over-sexualisation of young female bodies. I find it sad that I have to change what I want to wear, or how I want to look because of a potential sexual predator on the bus or a creepy boy at school.
I’m also extremely confused as to why so few people exposed me to true, empowering female role models like Salt-N-Pepa. Luckily, I have a cool sister who showed me groups such as TLC, and singers like Aaliyah. However, I had to discover most of these people by myself, and in a way I’m happy about that because I found them at the perfect time. These singers told me that it’s not OK for someone to call you a bitch, or for someone to tell you that they’re higher than you. 
Being a girl in this world is scary. I try to act strong, as if I can really make an imprint on our world, but it’s hard to do so. Mainly, I wish that all people on this earth will have their freedom. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-25-2016/3/
Steffany
I’m trying to take the funk, but it’s not working. I currently feel very much like a loser. All of the people in the same field as me or ones I want to go into are flourishing. And I’m watching it all happen with contradictory feelings. On one hand, I’m very proud. I’m an intensely loyal person, so when I see the people I love and trust doing amazing things, I am beyond proud. I mean that, genuinely. However, sometimes a bit of jealousy springs up, too, the kind where you’re motivated to stay on track and not get distracted. And after a string of rejections for internships and even scholarships, I’m started to feel a bit down. It’s just been a really tough first half of my year. I want so terribly to be prolific, to be a prominent voice, whatever that means. And I’m not doing that. I can’t make heads or tails of anything right now. I further feel disrespected because I’ve yet to hear a response from a lot of places I applied to, which is either because they don’t want me or they found someone else. Just have the courtesy to tell me I didn’t get chosen! I’m not a baby. 
A good thing is that I’m starting to figure some things out. I need some more alone time to think—although that’s scarce. I want to work in media. I’ve known this for some time, but I need to narrow down which sector I guess. I met up with this guy in the TV industry for coffee, and he basically said I can’t do everything. I don’t believe him. I hate to be hardheaded but women have long been doing everything, especially the media mavens I look up to (less Barbara Walters and more Danyel Smith). It’s time women did everything and got the credit they deserve, which is kinda why I don’t want to work anything unpaid. I’ve been getting paid for a while as a freelancer, I just don’t want to move backward. I have enough experience to justify a wage. I caught wind of this unpaid internship at this place I’ve been longing to work at; I’m just not sure if I should go for it. I am terrified. Those questions about whether I am enough are rearing their ugly heads again because I’ve put this company on such a high pedestal. I don’t know what I’m doing, but I just want to be the HBIC, one day. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-26-2016/3/
Fatma
I miss him already. I was watching the TV show Are You Afraid of the Dark when I found out what had happened, and I immediately started sobbing, hoping that what my sister had told me was a joke. It had to be because he couldn’t die. He was immortal in my mind. He had the most enchanting aura. I’m so lost without him here on earth as a guide. I feel so empty without him here, to make me feel better after bullies at school had ripped up my soul. He told me that I was going to grow up and be just fine. He told me that I could be an independent individual and that people will learn to appreciate the weird things I like. He told me that I should feel comfortable with myself because that’s the only thing that will always be there for me. He told me that I’m important. He told me that I was worth more than I told myself. And I told him, I love you. More specifically, I love you, Prince.
Some lyrics from a song I really like reminded me of how I feel right now: “Sandman, I’m so alone / Don’t have nobody to call my own / Please turn on your magic beam / Mr. Sandman, bring me a dream.” ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-27-2016/3/
Lilly
I have to run three miles for time at the end of this week. I haven’t done that since long before a surgeon put my ankle back together. That’s on top of three games a week until postseason, when rivalries get real and every game counts—you win or you’re out—and all I can do is hope that my joints hold together long enough to get me through to the summer.
Because it is so close; it’s a Calculus test and a History paper and an English presentation away, and it seems like all of that is going to seem so pointless, so irrelevant once it’s all over that it’s hard to focus. It’s hard enough to focus at soccer practice even with the constant reminder of our next competition held over our heads. It’s hard enough to feel real when I find myself too remote to concentrate on day-to-day things, but too guilty about it to do anything else.
But I have my better days. My best friend brings one of her male friends to a women’s college soccer game that we see together. They’re not officially a couple but I’m still third wheeling a little. That’s OK. He says he’s going to a university in the same city that I am next year. “You guys will both have to take the train to visit me,” says my best friend, her smile brighter than I’ve seen it in ages. I promise that I will, and the guy says, “Only as long as you visit us, too.” Us!
I come home sunburned. My legs and face are pink in the bathroom light and damp with aloe vera gel. I blink at myself in the mirror and ask myself if I feel real today. And I do. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-28-2016/3/
Ananda
Am I completely unlovable, undesirable? Because that’s what it feels like, as though I’m alone in a world where we all value companionship. There’s a multitude of people out there, looking for something, however vague or specific, why aren’t they looking for me? Maybe someone out there is, how am I meant to find them. How am I meant to fix myself if no one gives me the tools I need?
People always say that you need to love yourself before anyone else can love you, and while I call bullshit on that, I do love myself. I’m a good person: I can be funny and kind and loyal and I love the parts of myself that are so dark. But no one else does. Maybe I’m being selfish and greedy, but what I have isn’t enough. I don’t even need all of these things: Rooms filled with material possessions that I appreciate, but that I don’t need. I need a person, someone who sees me, and who doesn’t wince or cower away. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-29-2016/3/
Britney
“Are you OK?” she says to my bare feet. I have walked from the house and across the lawn with them. I cannot speak well. I have woken up and seen a ghost that was meant to be rived. I am the accidental witness to a murder; I am the ill wife who overhears her husband’s private affairs from the stygian blackness of her chambers, too weak to hide when he comes in. 
It’s like a game: two paths of chance. I lie. “I’m fine.” 
I almost vomited from remembering on the Q train yesterday and it would have been good only to mail all the reactions to Julia Kristeva, fingering the fine line where sick corpse meets mortal eye and the great divide ceases to exist. All of that in an MTA car, on top of the unbuckling of the worst repressed memories I’ve had the pleasure of holding—I’d be an NYC legend. 
I wake up choking on my sadness and I don’t protest because it is all my fault. I remember this no matter how hard I shut my eyes or widen them. When I first started going to the park and to school my mother told me what to do if a stranger tried to talk to me. She told me how to scream, where I got my banshee beginnings. She told me the tricks of the predator trade and how to run without stopping until I got home. 
I did not eat the lessons well enough. I missed out on mastication. Now I am this. Too scared to complain. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-1-2016/3/
Fatma
I dream of ways to tell my classmates that Islamophobia is not OK.
Throughout all of my years in school, I have always known the value of my rights. Although I have problems retaliating to bullies, I have always stood up for myself when someone was making fun of my culture or my beliefs. Recently, I was in a situation where I felt extremely uncomfortable. In English class, we had to write about what we would do if we had to sell our son to the devil. I felt like the teacher was making a joke but she wasn’t. And I knew I definitely wasn’t OK with writing about the devil in this way. It made me feel weird; I felt like my words could be given the wrong type of power and they may become a reality. So, instead of doing the work, I wrote an essay on how the curriculum is corrupt and how I didn’t think that the devil was an acceptable topic in an English class full of depressed teenagers who want to talk about stabbing each other. 
Weeks later, people in my school are talking about how I fought the system. It’s a great feeling to know that I’ve made an imprint on my school, but I have a feeling that I’ll be sent to the principle’s office very soon. 
Basically, if I had ever heard anyone making fun of me because I’m a Muslim, I know I couldn’t sit there and take it. And this is where the problem started for me. In my religious education class, my teacher taught a lesson that hit home. She showed us videos of UK politicians making fun of Muslims and immigrants, and the viral video of an innocent Muslim woman in a hijab being pushed onto train tracks, because the man who did it felt “threatened” by her presence. I was excited that my teacher was attempting to make the other students recognize that not all Muslim people are killers. 
But when she asked the question, “Is it OK to be Islamophobic?” I was shocked with what I had heard from my class. The room full of privileged, white teenagers all answered with a clear and crisp “yes!” They proceeded to explain how it’s OK to be Islamophobic if they are scared. My teacher shot a look at me and saw the tears developing in my eyes. Once class was over, she told me to stay behind so that I could speak to her. She told me that I shouldn’t let these comments from the class affect me. I replied by telling her how I thought she was really cool for breaking out of the curriculum and planning a lesson like this. 
But to add to this, a specific girl in my class gossipped to her friend about how that teacher was racist. It angered me to hear that a white girl had the nerve to say a teacher was being racist toward her. It annoyed me to know that when just one lesson wasn’t focused on her culture, she was quick to point fingers. Just because she felt uncomfortable, she thought she could get away with saying something like this. She must have forgotten about the times when her and her friends have ignored me because I didn’t engage in English culture. She must have forgotten about those times when her friends would jokingly shout “allahu akbar,” making fun of the words that mean God is the greatest. I felt even more crazy when my own friend went and said that she agreed with this girl!
I don’t care if I have to stand on my own in this argument. I’m sick of being the person who is constantly being pointed at for believing in Islam. I wish my classmates would realize that not all Muslims are terrorists and that not all immigrants will take their jobs. It’s really frustrating for me to think about. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-4-2016/3/
Keianna
Saturday can only be described as slightly disappointing. Not so disappointing that the day was a complete flop, just disappointing enough for my best friend and I to make jokes and blame each other. 
Usually art museums are my thing; I get lost in the art and couldn’t be happier about it. I’m sad to say that I can’t say the same of the museum we decided to visit. It may have been the pretentious older people who scoffed when we walked in and avoided us as we tried to take in the art. We were met with dirty looks when we attempted to discuss, in whispers, the meaning of a particular piece that had caught our eye. I rolled my eyes when a stranger whispered to her companion that they should really make the museum open only to people 18 and over. We eventually left, stopping momentarily at the gift shop before realizing the mugs in our hands were priced at $700. 
We stopped next at a small garden which I believed to be the most beautiful and relaxing place on earth. The obligatory Snapchats were taken. We sat on a bench and looked at the fish. We talked about life. We got hungry and set off to find food.
There were many failed attempts before we decided on a place to eat. An hour of walking brought us to a restaurant where you have to slide your tray down the line and tell the servers what you want cafeteria style. This was not convenient for two teens with anxiety, and drove us both to returning trays and exiting awkwardly. 
We ended up at a restaurant that some YouTubers call the holy grail of vegan eating. We complained about the mac and cheese being spicy, but praised the strawberry lemonade. People walking by were happy and sometimes waved. 
“My horoscope says that today isn’t going to be what I expected but still a lot of fun.”
Well, that makes a lot of sense. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-5-2016/3/
Kiana
The worst thing about trying to forget memories with people, is the regret that plagues you. I loathe this feeling of heaviness in my chest, lead-like. As if every single heartbeat corresponds to every friend I have lost due to my recklessness and insincerity. I cried in my room when I saw Durga Chew-Bose’s tweet: 
love friends who can say "don't involve me" to each other and it doesn't become a thing
— Durga Chew-Bose (@durgapolashi) April 2, 2016
I know I’m never going to have that kind of friend, and I’m not even going to pretend to find The One friend anymore. I accept the fact that I’m meant to just…float. Without anyone to hold my hand just because. My grandmother used to warn me that I’d never have a support system because of my persona and general disposition. I was apathetic to that statement then, but now I believe her.
In an effort to stay “off the grid” and unencumbered, I finally made the move to delete my Facebook account. I’ve had it deactivated for months now, and just last week I was woken up by the thought of getting out. Though this move may seem shallow to the untrained observer, for me it is huge. This is an important act of self-care. For once, I’ll give myself the liberty of not responding to the counter-speech directed at me by people I call friends, who—if I’m being honest—are like strangers.
My way may not be the highway, but I know I’m getting somewhere. 
This is how I know that I’m full of shit. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-6-2016/3/
Thahabu
I didn’t like boys in high school. I hooked up with them, not because I thought they were cute, but because they fit the ideal type my friends and other girls fawned over. I’d pretend to agree whenever they talked about the appeal of the boys they liked. It was the conventionally attractive guys, with wide chiseled jaw and abs. And if they were non-black or light-skinned, that was like finding the the holy grail of men. I felt strange and indifferent while they had these conversations, because I didn’t feel the same way. I didn’t care about abs or how “exotic” a guy looked, yet I had still never seen a guy that made my heart do backflips. I didn’t have the words to describe this feeling back then, and as result people started to label me and ask, “Thahabu are you confused or just gay? Because I never see you with a boy.” It didn’t help that I preferred to wear jeans more than dresses and I was never clever when it came to drama. I was the girl willing to yell if someone was bullying me, never whispering or starting rumors like I was expected to. I often wondered, Was I missing something? Why didn’t the sight of a guy’s abs make me hot and stumble over my words like it did my friends? I started believing what was projected onto me and, toward the end of high school, I identified as someone who liked girls.
It wasn’t until I went to a festival in the summer of 2013 that I discovered what my perfect guy looks like. I looked up and saw a tall man with wild hair, high defined cheekbones, a strong chin, and a smile that could light the whole world with world peace. In that moment, I knew what I liked and what I wanted. I wasn’t what others had labeled me. I had simply never seen a man I wanted until that moment—at the ripe age of 17 at Afropunk. Newly able to identify what I did and didn’t like, I looked back on my previous interactions with men and thought, Oh, that totally wasn’t my type, that was the exact opposite. I also realized that every time I talked to a guy when I was younger, I’d been subconsciously trying to impress my friends even if I never told them about the guy. I’m over trying to meet those expectations, but now I face a whole new stigma because I’ve still never been in a relationship.
My understanding of my sexuality hasn’t stopped others from trying to deny my femininity. Now that i know my tastes and what I want, I’m completely comfortable pursuing friends with benefits with people I’m attracted to. I haven’t met that special someone, and I have no desire to. It’s not that I’m against romantic relationships, I just don’t search for or stress over them. And, boy, do my friends and family give me slack for this. My family asks where’s my boyfriend at, and my friends are always like, “Girl, you’re just a player.” While I know my dear friends are joking, I’ve noticed that the terms they throw at me—player and fuckboy—usually apply to men. In fairness to them, this may be because some of my trysts with girls have ended in them developing feelings for me. My low self-esteem means that this invariably comes as a surprise to me, and I’ve had to explain that the feeling isn’t mutual while they cry and/or scream at me. I honestly never thought I’d be a “heartbreaker”; I always pictured people constantly breaking up with me. Regardless, I don’t think I should be viewed as someone who plays with people’s emotions or as someone who uses women. If I had broken men’s hearts people would probably be praising me like, “Yaaaas, girl! Boys ain’t shit. Fuck ’em.” But because some of my situationships end in romantic casualties I’m suddenly cold and heartless—and less of woman. 
Lately I’ve been internalizing these opinions. I shamed myself for not being able to appreciate romantic relationships, as if I’m gross for enjoying casual sex. I wouldn’t call these criticisms of me slut shaming. People seem to be OK with me having casual sex, the problem is they also expect me to harbor this fantasy of finding the perfect one, and to at least have relationships under my belt at 19 going on 20, which I do not. They also don’t like that boys and girls have called me yelling, trying to convince me that we belong together. That destroys their image of me as a typical girl archetype, cowering in sadness after a breakup or having been deceived. Somehow, I’m some hypersexual emotional traitor. 
Last summer, I was talking with my friend Madison about her relationship woes. The conversation switched to my sexual escapades and she casually commented with a laugh, “Oh, Thahabu you just don’t like anybody.” Her lighthearted tone was comforting and validating, confirming that my preference for friends with benefits is just as normal and healthy as someone who pines for a romantic relationship.
I don’t think I lead people on. I’m very in tune with my emotions and I don’t go back in forth with them. If I like someone I’ll tell them: I don’t give them hints or show them with my actions until that’s said. When I think back on the people who developed feelings for me then treated me like the Loch Ness Monster for not reciprocating I still get confused, because I honestly don’t give them much to like. People tend to talk to me—they tell me their life stories and secrets, and I don’t mind listening or offering comfort. But I’m not open in that same respect, I don’t tell them too much about myself. So what is it about me that makes them expect me to love them? I shout, “You don’t even know me! If I’m a player, if I lead you on, then how did I finesse you into liking me?” I haven’t provided them with anything besides a pretty face and free therapy, and that leads me back to thinking that they like the idea of me, which I hate with a burning passion of five million fires. 
My low self-esteem makes me think I don’t have the right to “dump” someone. So just like Cardi B on the song “Sauce Boys,” I start making up excuses for why they shouldn’t like me, or doing things to turn them off so they’ll end the relationship themselves and feel somewhat in control of the situation. Just like Cardi says “Listen, I’m a hoe,” I’ll pretend like I’m talking to someone other than them—giving them a little push in the “Leave Thahabu the fuck-alone” direction. But they still don’t get it, and when I’m clear about how I feel I still turn out to be the bad guy. I guess that’s how I end up in the player category. 
I’m trying not care anymore: I know what my intentions are and that I would never hurt someone on purpose. And if me not dreaming about a relationship makes me strange that’s fine, too. I know what I want and I’m not ashamed of it. I don’t use people for sex like Cardi says in the song, but I do understand her annoyance with the men she’s singing about. Especially those whose intention is to play a girl because they get a rise out of it. Take for example, this one guy I used to talk to. When we met he was doing this really heavy, almost predatory flirting with me; I could tell he just wanted to fool around. But then, over the weeks, he’d text me in this really romantic, pretentious, poetic voice when I already knew he was just trying to get in my pants! The last time he texted me some fake-deep crap I really wanted to text back like, “Are you just trying to hit or nah? Are you gonna keep sending me poems or just be real? Cuz I see through all the bullshit.” 
Maybe being raised by a raised single dad who taught me all about the games men play gave me a sixth sense, and maybe that’s why I’m not hellbent on rushing into a relationship. Like Cardi B says, “I don’t be stressing them / I swear I just flex on them.” ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-7-2016/3/
Britney
The book on wild women tells me how to stop the predator mid-advance. I cut off all my hair and I am harder to grab. My curls are always on the defensive. But they aren’t tendrils of lilim yet; my fury is manual for now. I’ve accepted staying in the waiting room for growth to practice my patience. I think I’m doing well.
I forget a lot. I forgot this diary and I forgot that assignment and this one and oh! My headphones are at home. I don’t have to forget scrunchies anymore. There is fault in every reprieve but I have hope for One Day. One Day always changes, but right now it is the talk of after high school that no longer scares me and loses its clinical feeling as it gets closer and I pull more people from my orbit into it with me. The great expanse that may or may not let me down. But I’ll get there. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-8-2016/3/
Cammy
Going to an Alex G/Porches concert with my best friend Dionisia is probably the best thing that’s happened recently. I really love Alex G!!! 
The visual diarist Briana G told me about him (a boy on Tinder told me about him too, but that’s a different story) and I listened to his most recent album Beach Music first. It was just so good—I liked everything about his sound. It’s kinda weird how fast I formed a connection to his songs; In a short time they came to mean a lot to me. His home recording process makes the music feel more relatable, or accessible. The work he puts into making his music really comes through when you’re listening to it, which makes the experience more intimate. I feel close to him. 
I’ve been wondering for a really long time whether he’s an Aquarius or a Pisces. Since I’m a Pisces, I was hoping he was a Pisces too, since I feel like I understand him. For example, my favorite song on Beach Music is “Walk,” and in his interview with Rookie he said HIS favorite song is “Walk,” which is like, OK obviously me and him are the same person to an extent. 
Anyways, the concert was super cool. I ran into some internet pals and talked with them which is a whole other experience in itself. At concerts like these, I get really anxious because there’s a certain look you have to have, and I always worry that I don’t look the part. And, if there are any other black people out there who go to these kinds of shows, you know how you feel that you really have to dress like you belong because you’re probably the only black person there? Well, my outfit was good and so was my hair and makeup so I felt pretty confident about being there! 
A combination of me connecting to Alex G’s music, my stellar outfit, and Dio’s encouragement gave me the confidence to ask him after the show if he was an Aquarius or a Pisces. He said he’s an Aquarius which makes a lot of sense: That must be why I feel like I know him, because although I’m a Pisces I’m also Aquarius dominant. This entry has ended up just being me rambling about astrology, which I’m always doing: It’s just really interesting to me. My main point is that I’m really glad I got to see Alex G. And talk to him about astrology. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-11-2016/3/
Steffany
I’ve been thinking a lot about being productive. Finding a balance between work and play is difficult. Rather, work and work. Except it’s work I like versus work I don’t like. College (no surprise) falls under the work I don’t like. I need to stop viewing that way, though. I have to just milk the experience for what it’s worth and move on. Recently, when I tried to switch my major to design, the woman who runs the program told me she wouldn’t let me switch in until I proved myself. In a weird way, this was a wake up call that I should be doing what I’m supposed to. 
I got a job at an app company! It’s great. I pride myself on being able to handle my business (although there’s room for improvement), but I was a little disappointed that people thought they could get over on because I’m young. I don’t see myself as some baby; I’m a contemporary of the elders I work with. Last night, I thought I’d be embraced by a fellow black woman in the office, one of the few that work here. Instead, I got a really rough handshake and a bunch of condescending and rude commentary about how 19 is nothing, and by extension so was I. 
I told her not to be threatened by us being in the same place at two completely different ages. I don’t let being the resident young person bother me, although, some of the changes have ruffled a few feathers. Being young is an asset, most times anyway. As in, if this seems like it may not work how I thought, I can jump ship. I’m not tied down to any specific thing, and I like it that way. To others, that’s not such a positive thing. I’m coming into that age when I’m supposed to semi know, or have a clue of what I want to do. And I don’t. Whatever. 
I know I like working, I enjoy self-sufficiency, I enjoy freelancing and networking. I know I want to work within the arts. In what capacity, who knows? I’ve been thinking about curating a Kelis tribute show or retrospective on campus. Maybe doing my own podcast. I know the market is oversaturated, but I’m interesting! I have a lot to say. I was going to curate a newsletter to come out before the podcast so that listeners could know what we were addressing before the show dropped. It could be about any and everything. I was playing with the idea of interviewing Robbie Myers, Editor-in-Chief at Elle about her decision to have black women on the covers back-to-back-to-back. These are all just ideas, and I don’t want to be bite off more than I can chew. However, being busy, being engaged with the world in one way or another, gives me a sense of purpose. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-12-2016/3/
Lilly
They are better than us technically, playing from foot to foot with an ease that we can’t match, not yet; and they tell us that we can’t do it. With 20 minutes left we concede the first goal of the game and for a single, gutting moment immediately thereafter, we believe them.
But we rally. It isn’t our first time trying to come back from a deficit. Things start clicking; we don’t have the finesse that they do but our strength is in our fluidity, in trying new approaches, working as a single unit. We press them harder, earn a corner kick. I’m a defensive player, meant to hang back, but as my teammate starts towards the ball I sprint forward, making a diagonal run across the face of our opponents’ goal. Their captain screeches my number—17—a defender turns her head and loses sight of one of our forwards for a split second—the ball soars in and that forward meets it in midair, hammering it into the back of the net. Into the back of the net!
Everyone is screaming. I run at my teammate with arms outstretched and she leaps at me, arms around my neck and legs around my waist. We’re both laughing as I spin her, the crowd is in uproar, our coach is shouting for us to, “Get back, let’s go, let’s get another!” from the sideline. And we have the momentum, so we do. And a third. When the final whistle blows we’ve made history again, beating this team for the first time since our school’s program began.
My mother is giddy. “The other team’s parents, Lilly, you should have seen their faces,” she says later. “They thought you’d be an easy win. They were gloating the whole time. But those first two goals, those shut them up.”
And the third was just the nail in the coffin, I think. But what matters is that we won. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-13-2016/3/
Cammy
My week was weird. I had a good dream about a boy in some of my classes who isn’t the same boy as the one I have a crush on. And like as much as I liked the old crush, after one dream that I can’t even remember that well, I almost completely forgot about him and started liking this new boy! 
I felt that I should feel guilty, so I asked my friends, “How fake am I for developing this fully fledged crush on this new boy in 24 hours and dropping the boy I’ve had a crush on for months and months?” 
One of my friends said super simply, “You’re a teenage girl! Just like the rest of us.” 
It was so comforting! Because I AM a teenage girl and I’ve been feeling so weird with my sexuality. I’m still identifying as queer and I’ve only just recently started having real crushes on boys—I’ve been wondering what’s wrong with me. But there’s nothing wrong with me! I’m a teenage girl: I don’t know everything and I’m learning about myself. Not as in “I’m learning from my mistakes,” but just understanding that I am in a stage of constant growth. That’s so nice to keep in mind when I’m not so sure about everything. Maybe thinking about life in this way will be helpful to other people who aren’t so sure about growing up. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-14-2016/3/
Keianna
Beyond myself there are words. A series of letters with meaning, or no meaning, depending on the person you ask. Let’s get the clichéd, everyday words out the way first. Those such as love, happiness, and adventure. I have to admit I have a soft spot for words like these. I like to slip them into the awkward, we-just-met moments to see how the conversation flips and turns into something entirely new. They’re tough subjects, so entirely new can mean the other person gets really into telling me their experiences or shies away and I’m left feeling like maybe I shouldn’t have structured my sentences and words in a way that scared them off. I don’t worry about it a lot. They’re just words.
There are words that inspire an angsty form of creativity in me. I feel like I should tattoo them on my body as conversation starters. They are words that inspire new words. The Dictionary of Obscure Sorrows does a good job of coining these. Jouska describes the “hypothetical conversation that you compulsively play out in your head.” Imaginary words that may come into play later, if you’re not too shy. Exulansis is giving up on talking about your past experiences because others are unable to relate. Words that get left unspoken.
Anecdoche is a conversation in which “everyone is talking but no one is listening.” This might inspire exulansis. I stopped using my words. I don’t want them to affect how people think of those clichéd, everyday words. Someone else’s perspective of love, happiness, and adventure shouldn’t be marred by their experience with me. I worry about it way too much. Words are important. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-15-2016/3/
Fatma
I’ve been feeling really blocked, recently. My honest feelings are that I’m disappointed with my situation. I’m unhappy in school but I feel wonderful at home. However, I spend most of my time at school, and when I’m at home, my brain is full of thoughts about school. I feel so drained. When I think about the role of fate, I think of the word “why.” Why do I live here? Why do these things happen to me? I find it crazy to know that the choices I make won’t affect my fate. It doesn’t matter if I do or don’t leave the house because the way I die is predetermined. I personally believe it was written in the stars. But there are some positive things happening, too. I’ve been watching episodes of Boy Meets World, and watching Rush Hour over and over again. 
I don’t really care how easily things like shows and films and Missy Elliott songs make me happy. At least I feel a bit better about my life. I owe it all to them. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-18-2016/3/
Cammy
Last week, my mom took me to her favorite spiritual-energy-crystal store to find a stone that would help with the anxiety issues I’ve been having. We looked around and she found some smoky quartz, which is really good for getting rid of bad energy like anxiety.
Ever since I was diagnosed with ADHD this past summer, I’ve been taking meds to help me focus. My first marking-period grades were really good, and I assumed that was because of my medication. But later, my grades weren’t all that because I kept not doing my homework. Homework is my biggest issue, and even though I take this stuff to help me focus, I still have huge issues getting it done. 
A couple of weeks ago, I was running late for school and forgot to take my meds. I noticed that it wasn’t super hard to do my work, just I was a little fidgety. When I got to my English class, my impulses weren’t totally under control so I was speaking out a lot. That may sound like a bad thing, but after class my teacher came up to me like, “Cammy you seemed really I focused today and you participated a ton!” And I was like, What????, because I literally stopped taking the meds that were supposed to help me focus! I also noticed that I didn’t have as much anxiety when it came to talking to people I consider cooler than me. That could be because my meds are stimulants, which can make me more anxious. Since I didn’t have that anxiety and I was acting more impulsively it was SUPER easy to talk to these cool people. Now I’m wondering if I should really even be taking these meds, because in the past couple of weeks my grades have gotten really good and I’ve been interacting with these cool kids WAY more. I hung out with them for the first time on Friday. 
I know it’s bad to just stop taking your meds, but mine aren’t habit-forming so I’m guessing it’s not the same as me totally dropping antidepressants or something. Given that homework is a bigger issue for me, I may try taking my meds at a different time of day. so that they work for after school—I don’t necessarily need their effects during school. I’m hoping that I’ll be able to work out a method so that I don’t have bad anxiety and I’m able to keep my grades up. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-19-2016/3/
Simone
I know trying to follow a plan is useless and impossible and sometimes more detrimental to the course of your life than any unplanned misstep, but what’s the harm in simply having one? Seemingly tangible fantasies help me dream at night.
In 10 years I will be 27 years old. Brian Jones and Kurt Cobain and Jimi Hendrix and Janis Joplin all died at 27, but hopefully I won’t. Truthfully, they were all a lot more famous at 27 than I’d ever like to be. I guess that’s most important.
At 27, I will only be a little bit famous. Fame garners respect and notability. Respect and notability get you places in society. Ideally, I will be some sort of artist, so the visibility that comes with fame could be important too. But I don’t want to end up experimenting with harder drugs, having some sort of legal hiccup, and having to apologize to my younger audiences the next morning via Facebook. That kind of fame is invasive and scary. It includes high expectations and challenging obstacles. (Kind of like growing up.)
How will I be a little bit famous by 27? I’ll start off with a thankless job writing for TV. This environment will be predominantly male, but rather than shrivel under the weight of The Patriarchy, I will rise, as my sisters Liz Lemon and Mary Tyler Moore have. In my free time, I will write screenplays and shop them. My written stories will go on to the screen, and then to festivals, garnering awards and praise, but not enough to make me a household name. (Just kidding! What screenwriter is a household name?) Teenage girls will read my Wikipedia page and be inspired. My male peers will hide their jealousy, but not well enough to evade my bullshit sensor. (That’s another thing about future Simone. Her bullshit sensor is going to be amazing.)
I will live in New York City. New York City is the best city in the world. And yes, maybe I’ve lived in a 15-mile radius of and around New York City for my entire life, but I don’t think my opinion is biased. I’m probably not going to be able to afford Manhattan or Brooklyn, and Queens is going to be gentrified before I know it. Probably the Bronx and Staten Island, too. (I might actually be screwed on this front.) But that can be pondered later. The world has time to change to fit my needs.
I will have the best friends ever. I know this because I’ve heard grown-up friendships are like high school friendships, except a lot more options and lot less guilt about dropping deadbeats. This excites me. I’ve done well in high school friendships so far, but with more options and less guilt, I can’t begin to fathom how amazing things will be. At 27, I will club, party, read, brunch, jog, dinner party, binge watch, swim, bathe, dance, sing, with the best people ever.
I need to ensure that at 27 I don’t constantly say things like “I’m so old” or “I’m so close to 30.” Yes, 27 is kind of old! But why waste all that time stating what is already clear to everyone? And why waste three years complaining about being 30 before it even happens? I’m going to be the least annoying twenty-something that ever existed.
And finally, boys. There will be so many boys. Excuse me—men. It will have started in college, my professors, Division III athletes, T.A.s, Marxist fuckbois, et cetera. And then I’ll make it to the city, and there will be endless possibilities, of which I’ll make great use. I won’t go into detail here because I plan to lead a spontaneous and casual sex life and outlining it would go against the point. 
Maybe outlining anything goes against the point. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-20-2016/3/
Thahabu
My family loves telling me that I am the spitting image of my mother. I take great pride in being likened to her beauty, because I truly do believe she was one of the most beautiful women to ever walk this earth—and I’m not just saying that because she’s my mom! But lately, I don’t think I resemble the smiling, lipstick-clad woman making divaesque poses in the photos around my house. Though I know we’re all human and don’t always look or act our best, my idea of my mother is that she was the perfect woman. The best mother, wife, friend—a generous human being who embodied womanhood. I chose to make this idea of her a standard I should work toward every day of my life, something I can only dream to achieve. 
It wasn’t until this week when my sister posted a close up of my mother beside a picture of me with the caption “I tell you my sister is my mother’s twin!” that I stopped having this finite view of her. This was the first photo I had seen where my mother wasn’t smiling—in fact her expression was almost the opposite. She wasn’t made up, or sporting lustrous jewelry and her classic red lipstick. She looked tired, her almond eyes surprised, and her mouth slightly open in a “I know you not taking a picture of me right now, while I feel like this” kind of way. I found the uncropped version of the photo: In it my mother is brushing my sister’s hair, and my sister is a baby, maybe seven months old. My mother didn’t look any less beautiful than she does in her more glamorous pictures. She looked like she was in her everyday state—in her home where she was happiest, wearing her night scarf, a big white T-shirt, with hoop earrings, and a short Nefertiti necklace—happy to be an exhausted mom and just trying to brush her baby’s hair until someone decided to take an off-guard shot of her. There was beauty in her weariness, in being done and relaxed. That was probably the only peace she’d be getting for the day as a stay-at-home mom.
Before seeing this photo. I related to my mother’s personality more than I did her appearance: When people described her I realized where I got my giving nature and hunger for fun from. Looking at that picture, I suddenly knew what people were talking about when they called me beautiful or complimented my looks. I have a similar expression to the one my mom had in the picture, when I’m writing or just sitting down deep in meaningless thoughts and someone decides to do or say do something ridiculous around me. That’s how I look when I’m trying to find tranquility, but can’t get all the way there so I’ll just accept a fraction of it and savor it while I can. 
All of my softest features come from my mother. I have a love-hate relationship with my big lips, but I really did inherit them from my mother, and for that I’m thankful—she is beautiful and that means I am also beautiful. For the first time I saw the twinkle in my eye in selfies that I thought were ugly. I get it. I shouldn’t be so skeptical of people who appreciate the way I look. They don’t all have ill intentions, and I should be pleased that they see the gifts that my mother blessed me with. It has taken me such a long time to notice them for myself.
This year has worn me out and I know I haven’t been looking my best, but this picture showed that there’s nothing wrong with that. I’m still beautiful and of value when I feel like I want to rip the world in half. It’s totally fine for me to take time for myself and look on in “what the hell are you doing” awe when someone jokingly disturbs my peace. 
My anxiety is very much connected to my being a perfectionist, and after seeing that old photo I’m not so obsessed with being perfect. I’m not sure why I ever thought my mother was perfect, when I love the imperfections in everyone else around me. My sister wants us to go visit our relatives on my mother’s side of the family—I hope they have more pictures of her looking like that. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-21-2016/3/
Keianna
When I was in the third grade I was obsessed with miracle fish. They’re basically mood rings in plastic fish form, what’s not to love? The idea that the little fish seemed to know how I was feeling was amazing to me, which goes to show how lonely I was.
If you knew me at the time you’d probably think there was no way for me to be lonely. Along with my grandma, aunt, and uncle there were seven children around my age living in our house at the time. There was a huge garage-like building behind it that used to be the newspaper headquarters for our small city. That summer, we dragged our trundle beds into it and “camped out.” Whenever I got a minute to myself I’d go in there to cry.
Back to the miracle fish: I got mine during a party at school. One of my classmates dutifully placed one on each of our desks and I was in awe from the time I picked it up. The way it flipped and twisted in my hand to tell me that I was nervous was pure magic.
The day my father came to move me and my siblings back home after a year of living with my mother, I turned into a completely different version of myself. This version no longer needed the close friend that my little miracle fish had become, and I left it in the garage-like structure by mistake. By the time I realized it was gone, I didn’t feel like I needed it anymore.
I left my little miracle fish around this time, years ago. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-22-2016/3/
Fatma
Throughout my life, I’ve had people tell me that women are less than men, and I haven’t even been alive for very long. People tell me that the WNBA is not as good as the NBA, and that I probably can’t name more than three good female rappers (I definitely can: Queen Latifah, Yo-Yo, MC Lyte, Left Eye, Da Brat, etc.). I’ve realized how weird it is that some things have been constantly drilled into our minds, to the point where we think these things are right. 
I have always struggled to understand why it was assumed my brother wouldn’t shave his legs but I would. I have never understood why at the age of 10—although I was still a child—I had to stop wearing shorts above my knees because it was deemed unsuitable. I still don’t understand why girls are made fun of for having natural facial hair, or for not threading their eyebrows. Why are girls brought up to think that diamonds are their best friend, and not that they can be their own best friend? This all relates to my absolute hate for the over-sexualisation of young female bodies. I find it sad that I have to change what I want to wear, or how I want to look because of a potential sexual predator on the bus or a creepy boy at school.
I’m also extremely confused as to why so few people exposed me to true, empowering female role models like Salt-N-Pepa. Luckily, I have a cool sister who showed me groups such as TLC, and singers like Aaliyah. However, I had to discover most of these people by myself, and in a way I’m happy about that because I found them at the perfect time. These singers told me that it’s not OK for someone to call you a bitch, or for someone to tell you that they’re higher than you. 
Being a girl in this world is scary. I try to act strong, as if I can really make an imprint on our world, but it’s hard to do so. Mainly, I wish that all people on this earth will have their freedom. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-25-2016/3/
Steffany
I’m trying to take the funk, but it’s not working. I currently feel very much like a loser. All of the people in the same field as me or ones I want to go into are flourishing. And I’m watching it all happen with contradictory feelings. On one hand, I’m very proud. I’m an intensely loyal person, so when I see the people I love and trust doing amazing things, I am beyond proud. I mean that, genuinely. However, sometimes a bit of jealousy springs up, too, the kind where you’re motivated to stay on track and not get distracted. And after a string of rejections for internships and even scholarships, I’m started to feel a bit down. It’s just been a really tough first half of my year. I want so terribly to be prolific, to be a prominent voice, whatever that means. And I’m not doing that. I can’t make heads or tails of anything right now. I further feel disrespected because I’ve yet to hear a response from a lot of places I applied to, which is either because they don’t want me or they found someone else. Just have the courtesy to tell me I didn’t get chosen! I’m not a baby. 
A good thing is that I’m starting to figure some things out. I need some more alone time to think—although that’s scarce. I want to work in media. I’ve known this for some time, but I need to narrow down which sector I guess. I met up with this guy in the TV industry for coffee, and he basically said I can’t do everything. I don’t believe him. I hate to be hardheaded but women have long been doing everything, especially the media mavens I look up to (less Barbara Walters and more Danyel Smith). It’s time women did everything and got the credit they deserve, which is kinda why I don’t want to work anything unpaid. I’ve been getting paid for a while as a freelancer, I just don’t want to move backward. I have enough experience to justify a wage. I caught wind of this unpaid internship at this place I’ve been longing to work at; I’m just not sure if I should go for it. I am terrified. Those questions about whether I am enough are rearing their ugly heads again because I’ve put this company on such a high pedestal. I don’t know what I’m doing, but I just want to be the HBIC, one day. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-26-2016/3/
Fatma
I miss him already. I was watching the TV show Are You Afraid of the Dark when I found out what had happened, and I immediately started sobbing, hoping that what my sister had told me was a joke. It had to be because he couldn’t die. He was immortal in my mind. He had the most enchanting aura. I’m so lost without him here on earth as a guide. I feel so empty without him here, to make me feel better after bullies at school had ripped up my soul. He told me that I was going to grow up and be just fine. He told me that I could be an independent individual and that people will learn to appreciate the weird things I like. He told me that I should feel comfortable with myself because that’s the only thing that will always be there for me. He told me that I’m important. He told me that I was worth more than I told myself. And I told him, I love you. More specifically, I love you, Prince.
Some lyrics from a song I really like reminded me of how I feel right now: “Sandman, I’m so alone / Don’t have nobody to call my own / Please turn on your magic beam / Mr. Sandman, bring me a dream.” ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-27-2016/3/
Lilly
I have to run three miles for time at the end of this week. I haven’t done that since long before a surgeon put my ankle back together. That’s on top of three games a week until postseason, when rivalries get real and every game counts—you win or you’re out—and all I can do is hope that my joints hold together long enough to get me through to the summer.
Because it is so close; it’s a Calculus test and a History paper and an English presentation away, and it seems like all of that is going to seem so pointless, so irrelevant once it’s all over that it’s hard to focus. It’s hard enough to focus at soccer practice even with the constant reminder of our next competition held over our heads. It’s hard enough to feel real when I find myself too remote to concentrate on day-to-day things, but too guilty about it to do anything else.
But I have my better days. My best friend brings one of her male friends to a women’s college soccer game that we see together. They’re not officially a couple but I’m still third wheeling a little. That’s OK. He says he’s going to a university in the same city that I am next year. “You guys will both have to take the train to visit me,” says my best friend, her smile brighter than I’ve seen it in ages. I promise that I will, and the guy says, “Only as long as you visit us, too.” Us!
I come home sunburned. My legs and face are pink in the bathroom light and damp with aloe vera gel. I blink at myself in the mirror and ask myself if I feel real today. And I do. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-28-2016/3/
Ananda
Am I completely unlovable, undesirable? Because that’s what it feels like, as though I’m alone in a world where we all value companionship. There’s a multitude of people out there, looking for something, however vague or specific, why aren’t they looking for me? Maybe someone out there is, how am I meant to find them. How am I meant to fix myself if no one gives me the tools I need?
People always say that you need to love yourself before anyone else can love you, and while I call bullshit on that, I do love myself. I’m a good person: I can be funny and kind and loyal and I love the parts of myself that are so dark. But no one else does. Maybe I’m being selfish and greedy, but what I have isn’t enough. I don’t even need all of these things: Rooms filled with material possessions that I appreciate, but that I don’t need. I need a person, someone who sees me, and who doesn’t wince or cower away. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/4/dear-diary-april-29-2016/3/
Britney
“Are you OK?” she says to my bare feet. I have walked from the house and across the lawn with them. I cannot speak well. I have woken up and seen a ghost that was meant to be rived. I am the accidental witness to a murder; I am the ill wife who overhears her husband’s private affairs from the stygian blackness of her chambers, too weak to hide when he comes in. 
It’s like a game: two paths of chance. I lie. “I’m fine.” 
I almost vomited from remembering on the Q train yesterday and it would have been good only to mail all the reactions to Julia Kristeva, fingering the fine line where sick corpse meets mortal eye and the great divide ceases to exist. All of that in an MTA car, on top of the unbuckling of the worst repressed memories I’ve had the pleasure of holding—I’d be an NYC legend. 
I wake up choking on my sadness and I don’t protest because it is all my fault. I remember this no matter how hard I shut my eyes or widen them. When I first started going to the park and to school my mother told me what to do if a stranger tried to talk to me. She told me how to scream, where I got my banshee beginnings. She told me the tricks of the predator trade and how to run without stopping until I got home. 
I did not eat the lessons well enough. I missed out on mastication. Now I am this. Too scared to complain. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/3/dear-diary-march-1-2016/3/
Marah
A person can be born more than once in her lifetime. I believe that the day I was born is not as important as the day I met my husband—that was the day I was really born. I started a journey in a new life with him, a journey that requires a real partner. When I was little, I always thought that marriage would be an easy journey, but I now realize how hard it is, and this is exactly why we need the right partner. I am very lucky that my partner on this journey is someone I love. His company makes me stronger, and I hope I can provide him with strength, too.
Some people say that marriage puts dreams to death, but I believe that it is actually the opposite. I have to admit that this idea took over my thinking during the first week of my marriage. I kept asking myself: What did I do? Did I just kill my dreams? For whom? And why?
My dreams had been receding since the beginning of the war. Every time I tried to revive them, the suffering I went through would suffocate them, over and over again. This is why, for a moment, I was scared that marriage might ultimately kill my dreams.
At the beginning I was bored. My life in Syria was very busy. I had my studies, my work, and many other responsibilities, but when I got married, I faced a life devoid of responsibilities, which made me uncomfortable and stressed me out. My husband felt my stress, without my saying anything. He understood me without any need for words. He surprised me one day when he registered me in a German language school, and he has since been encouraging me to continue with my studies.
My time is full now. I go to school from 8 AM to 11 AM. I come back home to do homework and housework for a little while; and then I go back to school from 7 PM to 10 PM. I am back to my normal, busy life. My classes are not very hard—although the pronunciation is different, so many words are similar to English. I am very excited. I want to learn, so that I can communicate with people around me. For the first time in my life, when someone talks to me, I cannot understand or answer. It is very hard and humiliating, and I am working hard to overcome it as soon as possible. I never liked to be marginalized, and if I do not learn the language I will actually vanish. I want to learn German as soon as possible, so that I can start a life in this new place.
I feel somewhat independent now. I always connected my life to my mother’s. I always asked for her advice. I do enjoy her presence, and I still ask for her advice sometimes. She was and still is the person I look up to, but now I feel that I have become an independent person who is sailing her own ship—with the help of her husband.
My relationship with my mother is very different to my relationship with my husband: one is built on obedience, maybe because I always trusted her wisdom and her decisions, but the other is built on a partnership. My mother has always been my friend, but my relationship with her is bound by respect, while with my husband there is a balanced, mutual respect. My new life has provided me with a higher status, although my mother never tried to push me down. She always helped me to be confident, and without her I would not have reached where I am now.
I am sure that my mother would not be upset if she were to read these words, because I am being very honest. I feel that I am stronger and more mature, and this is what I need to continue with my new life. I know that this new life will have its own challenges, but I also know that since I have been through a lot, I have the power to face all challenges. This is how I approach my new life here. I always tell myself that the future can never be as hard as the past.
I mentioned earlier that I was not sure whether I was qualified to have a child, especially psychologically. I was afraid that what I had been through might prevent me from giving my child the love and warmth he or she needs, but things are very different now. Every time I visit my husband’s family, I recall the warmth I used to have when I was little. Every time I visit them, I feel that I want to start my own family and have my own baby.
Some of you might think that it is too early for such a big responsibility, but I do not see having a child as a challenging responsibility, as much as I see it as an opportunity to share love. I want to give my child the love that my father gave me. I want to feel the happiness that my mother felt when she provided us with her kindness.
I am not afraid anymore that the war might have affected me and made me unable to raise a child. I know that I am capable of that. I have faced my fear of marriage and realized that I am a great wife, and I can do the same again. I know that having a child will not stop me from realizing my dreams, the way having a husband did not. It will actually motivate me to improve myself, and build a great future for my new family.
Do not make fun of me, please! I am a different person now. Or, let’s say I am back to who I was before the war: a dreamy and ambitious girl who loves life. I was wrong when I thought that I would not heal, and that I would not be able to forget what I had been through. I realize that I never changed; I have been in prison, but now I am back to life. The prison was never Syria. Syria is home, but the prison was the war that stripped our dreams and our loved ones away from us.
Have you noticed that I don’t look back anymore, and that I am now focused on my present and my future? I am sure that tomorrow is going to be better. You might think that the happiness I feel now is providing me with hope, and that this might disappear over time, or that it is because of my new life, but let me tell you that my new partner is the reason. I do not know which of us is helping the other, but I know that I am very happy with this man that fate has given me. ♦
Marah’s diary is produced in collaboration with Syria Deeply, a digital news outlet covering the Syrian crisis. It was translated from the Arabic by Mais Istanbelli.
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/3/dear-diary-march-2-2016/3/
Lilly
When things don’t go as planned, you have to get creative. My English teacher pulls this stunt on us this semester: He has us write a short anecdote for him, something we’d told others in casual conversation before, a short narrative from our own lives or maybe one we’d heard from someone else. It is a refreshing departure from the usual academic tone that we students are forced to strike in most of our writing; I have my story immediately, a cute account of getting picked first for a team at soccer practice. He gives them back to us a few days later and says, “Now there’s a twist to this assignment. Each one of you is going to take your anecdote and turn it into a developed work of short fiction.”
It is safe to say none of us had been expecting that. My head starts spinning. How was I supposed to take this single tiny scene and detail it enough to actually have a plot? My teacher explains further. The anecdote doesn’t have to be central to the plot of our story, but it should be noticeable to him, having already read it. The narratives themselves, he says, could be about whatever we wanted. More freedom! Too much freedom, I catch myself thinking at one point, doodling and pondering character development in physics class. (The picture of the responsible student.)
I don’t remember how or when or why inspiration struck. I remember little scrawled phrases all over the margins of my notes, like “second person” and “man, Jackson, how you know my name?” and once, in all caps, “HE CAN READ MINDS.” At some point my story is born. It is drafted in my English notebook during discussion hours and in the notes app on my phone between classes and strung together in a document on my laptop, some late night when I know I won’t be able to sleep until I bring my characters to life.
They are alive enough to me that I worry about them when I finally title the story—“Amygdala”—and hand it over to my teacher. The classmates I had enlisted to read it beforehand had assured me it was a good enough final draft, but I’m never without my misgivings when it comes to my own writing. You get to know your own characters well enough that you start getting anxious about whether you’re representing them properly. Is Jackson going to come off right? What if he’s misinterpreted—I know he doesn’t mean that—I know how he thinks.
(I get especially attached to Jackson. He isn’t quite me—I actually appear elsewhere in the story—but there’s a little bit of “me” in him. That tends to happen.)
A week or so later my teacher hands our stories back and I don’t have time to read his comments because I’m already bordering on late to P.E. as it is, so I stuff it in my backpack and hurry out of the classroom. It’s not until much later that night, face illuminated by the blue glow of my laptop as I contemplate writing this piece, that I remember.
I would reproduce every word of his notes if I could. I almost cry, reading them, because it had been so long since I’d written anything creative and I hadn’t realized how much it’s been weighing on my mind—whether the characters and plotline I had created were going to be “good enough.” And this time, for the purposes of this assignment, they were. He calls my narrative “excellent.” I had been praying for much less.
When things don’t go as planned, you have to get creative. Sometimes I forget that my form of creativity—writing—is a lot more powerful than some people give it credit for. I have to remember that. I owe it to my teacher. I owe it to everyone who’s ever nurtured me as a writer. I owe it to myself. I owe it to Jackson. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/3/dear-diary-march-3-2016/3/
Simone
Sometime around the age of 10 or 11, I decided that being organized was highly important to me, and that my room was not organized. So I organized it, and entered a new phase of my being.
I dumped to the floor the contents of every drawer, container, and bookshelf. I sorted and re-shelved until everything had its own space and every space was neat. Inside me, something clicked.
My friends were always grounded for not cleaning their rooms when asked. This never happened to me because I never had to be asked.
As I got older, my passion for organization increased. It became so that every morning I made my bed. Each week, I vacuumed furiously. I couldn’t do my homework unless my room was clean. I couldn’t sleep unless my room was clean. I couldn’t do anything in my room unless it was clean. And so, my room was always clean.
Sometime last year, I stopped caring about having a clean room. The urge to tidy was still present, but I lacked the motivation and effort to execute my desires. I’d put “clean room” on to-do lists and allocate time, but it only ever happened on the rare late nights I was jolted with energy and too bored to do anything else.
This morning, I looked at the floor of my bedroom—except I couldn’t see it. It was covered in crinkled receipts and dirty clothes and old homework assignments. For the first time, I did not want to organize the chaos. It was comforting. Unlike to-do lists, and organized bins, and timed standardized tests, and due dates, and application requirements, and clocked community service hours, and bank statements, and bills, it felt real.
I have entered a new phase of my being. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/3/dear-diary-march-4-2016/3/
Fatma
Last Friday, I felt like an infant going to pre-school for the first time. I just didn’t feel right. 
For everyone else, attendance is their first priority, but ever since I had my scoliosis corrective surgery, I get tired really easily, and going to school for a whole week straight is a big achievement.
As I walked into school, I thought of the promise my mum had made me. She told me that if I went to school, we would redecorate my room and eat mouth-watering snacks. I felt like nothing could get me down, but I was completely wrong. As the day progressed, I felt worse. In the span of six hours, three older girls pointed and laughed at me, someone threw a pen at my face, and a boy in my science class threw a glue stick at my head. I felt really embarrassed and was in pain for at least five minutes. And to top it all off, I had to take a 45-minute bus ride home. But an hour of crying while watching Dave Chappelle skits helped me a lot. 
And, for the boy who threw a glue stick at me: I’ll be waiting at your wedding ceremony. As your wife is walking down the aisle and you’re crying tears of joy, I’ll be there. I’ll be there with a glue stick in my hand, ready to return the embarrassment. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/3/dear-diary-march-7-2016/3/
Kiana
I have walked every night at exactly 11 PM since last week, and I have read three books authored by women. I liked the latter part of that sentence. I liked reading books written by women. I liked swimming in ideas sprung from their brains. Among these great pieces of literature is The Bell Jar, which has brought me solace and warmth on my 11 PM walks. On these walks, whenever I pass a manhole or an open street canal, I always accidentally get a sniff of the heavy, putrid stench of the city’s wastes. My walks are lonely—my old friend loneliness is back in my system and I seem to like it. At least I have a companion, even if it’s a rather despondent, cloudy one.
I have tried talking to my friends, but no one understands. It’s just me with this debilitating coldness seeping into my bones. It’s a surprise that I even managed to pad my fingers heavily on my keyboard as I type this. Everything comes as a surprise now.
For now, this is enough. I am trying my best to make room for the loneliness, and I’ll leave it at that until due time, whenever that is. One day, all of my memories will soften, and the bloodshed inside me will cease. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/3/dear-diary-march-8-2016/3/
Ananda
Ups and downs are inevitable, but when the downs come I forget about everything else. I worry I’ve gone back to the start, I think about increasing my meds and going back to therapy. Its an awful feeling, worrying about relapsing. As much as my friends tell me that if I relapse it’s OK—and I say the same to my friends—it’s something I forget to believe as soon as I’m low again. For my birthday, my mum got me a bracelet with the date I last self harmed on it, I use it as a reminder of how far I’ve come and as an incentive not to go back to that place.
I’ve been sleeping a lot more recently, when I get in from college, through the weekend. I think my parents are aware of it now as my dad told me it wasn’t good. To be honest though, I’m tired all the time and I’m not sure if that’s to do with my depression and anxiety or a separate issue. After an eight-hour day at college plus the two hours it takes to get there and back I’m exhausted. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/3/dear-diary-march-9-2016/3/
Simone
Prom is approaching fast. May 24, 2016 to be exact. Two months is a very long period of time but also very short period of time. And much to the dismay of my aloof façade, I fear I may not have a prom date. This being the case, I would like to present my case to the jury. Boys, listen up.
Choosing a prom date is like choosing a lab partner or research paper topic. While in the moment things seem very low stakes, they are not. And if you ultimately regret your decision, those feelings of doubt and doom will never subside. In order to make well-informed decisions, one must have information. It is therefore important that you know a few things.
For one, I’m 5’6”. My height is an asset because I’m average. I’m tall enough that you won’t feel uncomfortable or creepy, but short enough to help you assert your height and thus, dominance over women. I see the importance of this because I watched a powerful documentary about masculinity and I know it is very fragile.
While discussing the matter of my physical appearance, you should know that while I’m certainly no Angelina Jolie, there are no overwhelmingly ugly qualities about my face or body. This makes me the perfect average-looking prom date for you! After all, would you really want to be one-upped by your date? I don’t think so.
As you can tell from the fact I am writing this, I have very low self-esteem and poor decision-making skills. Luckily, for you, this means that I lack sexual boundaries. Take me to prom, and you never know what may come of it! ;)
Finally, I remind you that middle-aged women LOVE me. There has never been a mother who didn’t like me. I’m the perfect blend of ambition, wit, and flyaways. In me, they see their younger selves, free, and hopeful, and clumsy. They want to be my guide, and also buy me sweaters at the Gap. Essentially, if your mom likes your prom date (me) she will be more enthusiastic about the entire experience, covering the cost of things like corsages and tux rentals, which you may never have thought of yourself.
In all, even if you all decide not to go to prom with me, I just want you all to know that I am a perfectly viable prom date. That, in and of itself, is validation enough. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/3/dear-diary-march-10-2016/3/
Keianna
No one is born hating themselves. No one comes out of the womb thinking, I look horrible. Instead it’s something that’s taught to, no instilled in, us by society. By mothers who tell us that our appearance is what matters most. By fathers who tell us we shouldn’t be eating so much. By flashy ads that show the “perfect” person selling something that, if you’re lucky, will make you look a little more like them. We are taught to let the flames that are self-love die out. 
That doesn’t mean that the embers aren’t still warm, waiting patiently to reignite and make the flames run rampant and spread to to the people around us. It’s so evident in our daily lives. It’s the small smile we give ourselves in the mirror. It’s the beat that drives our feet to dance around our rooms alone. It’s in the small pep talks we give ourselves before we taking on a challenge. It’s so obvious that we want to love ourselves. So why don’t we?
It was so hard for me to start trying to love myself because I knew I was going to have bad days. But the rewards I reaped outweighed them. The feeling of being secure in yourself is something I want everyone to feel. Let’s work toward loving ourselves. We deserve it. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/3/dear-diary-march-11-2016/3/
Thahabu
People are always telling me I’m special. I assume they’re talking about my unique name or my overall spunky personality. I even interpreted it as them being able to tell that I’ve been through a lot of strife in my life, a sort of pity they’ve turned into a compliment, which I’ve come to resent. However, I see now it’s more than that. They’re pointing out something that I’ve tucked away due to the fear that I’d look ridiculous showing it off for the world to see. Being called special isn’t always about someone trying to festishize my pain, 90 percent of the time it’s actually their way of recognizing all the good things about me that I refuse to acknowledge. When you have scoliosis, like I do, it’s as though you don’t deserve to really feel good about yourself unless it boosts the self-esteem of able-bodied people: “Wow, she’s brave enough to feel herself with her back looking like that? Then I can too!” Eww, no my confidence isn’t for your wack ass. Liking myself was never for me, but a performance to make people comfortable so they wouldn’t feel bad for me. I’m done with that. It’s already a part of my personality to not really care what people think of me, so there’s really no need to keep putting on a show. I’m not unique or special because of the way my foreign name bounces off someone’s tongue or because my life has made me “deep.” I am special because of my genuineness, beauty, and talent, and if someone disagrees with that they’re wrong. 
I broke down crying in therapy last week then cried even more because I felt stupid for crying, I told my therapist, in the midst of my sobs, that I was stupid for crying because I felt like I didn’t deserve to cry. I’ve been made to feel like my feelings are a lie, that if I called someone out for hurting me I was just exaggerating, and they had every right to treat me the way they did. Why the hell was I denying myself the right to feel things? I am worthy of my feelings. I’m worth telling someone that they hurt me in a really terrible way, and being able to be angry about that without them telling me I’m lying because they don’t want to accept that they’re not this innocent flawless hero who just wanted to “take care of me.” I’m so much fucking better than that and deserve so much more. And you know how I know I deserve the best? In the moments I was punishing myself for being able to acknowledging my sadness I remembered the moment that me and my friend Amy met. We were shouting over music at a party. I said “respectability politics” and she immediately pointed at me and started yelling, “YOU’RE THE ONE.” She yelled it four more times then tapped her friend to let her know that I was the one, then proceeded to put her number and email in my phone. Ever since then I’ve received nothing but blessings. 
The problem is I haven’t been treating myself like I’m the one. Nothing I do satisfies me. I could find the cure for cancer and still believe at my core that I’m some worthless terrible person who hasn’t accomplished anything. That’s not true. I am genuine, beautiful, empathetic, and gifted. I deserve to cry, I deserve love and respect, and from now on, that’s the standard I’m going to hold for myself and others around. A person should treat me the way Amy looked at me when she screamed, “You’re the one!” the night I met her. I am special, I am “the one” and it’s time I recognized it. And if not for me, then for Amy. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/3/dear-diary-march-14-2016/3/
Lilly
The voice in my head says, Sit down and work! The voice in my head says, Your mom and your teachers and your friends would be mad at you if they knew you were procrastinating on this! The voice in my head says, Are you even thinking about trying? The voice in my head says, You’re never going to make it on your own. Not in college, not in life.
I can’t focus. Instead, I tell stories, because my English teacher got me hooked. Here is a story: A few years ago a band called Little Green Cars came all the way from Ireland to play a music festival in my hometown. I go to this production every year like clockwork—just a few months ago I was front row for Purity Ring and a couple of years before that I joined hands and danced with strangers during a remarkable Major Lazer set. But of all the bands and artists I’ve seen come through those familiar stages, Little Green Cars stand out the most. Why? Because their power blew out halfway through their set and instead of throwing a tantrum they told us to come closer, and when we had all crowded the stage to their liking, they stood at its very front and sang to us—just their voices and a guitar, and a tambourine for time. I made eye contact with the bassist. He smiled. Then he was walking towards me, and the crowd was parting, and the entire band was coming down from the stage and making a circle inches from where my toes dug into the concrete. They played their final song an arm’s length away from me. I’ll never forget it.
I still can’t focus. Another story: One of my best friends is allergic to cats, which is why she’s rarely at my house (I have three). The first time she slept over here I didn’t know about her allergy, which led to the inevitable I-have-to-ask moment when one of them got too close and, well, she started crying. She was laughing and sneezing and there were tears practically streaming down her face and I was obviously freaking out, and then she said, “Can I borrow a T-shirt?” 
“Um, OK.” So I got her one, and she wrapped it around her hand and started petting the cat. As if the T-shirt would help. Since then I’ve put my foot down about having her over, because, “I’m not having you crying all night and leaving me to figure out whether it’s because of the allergies or because you’re sad you can’t pet the cats, OK,we’re doing this at your house next time—”
OK. I think I’m OK now. I could tell another story about the assistant coach at soccer practice the other day who was watching me shoot and eventually came over and said, “I have to ask, because I can’t figure it out—do you even have a dominant foot?” And it is soccer season, and that should help, that should clear my head. But the inside of my skull is just as murky as it was last week and the week before and the week before that. The end of the school year is so close, that’s nothing but fact, but it’s hard enough to see the end when I can barely glimpse a way forward right now.
Maybe I should be patient. Maybe it takes time to act, like a slow-release pill. Soccer is still my makeshift remedy for everything but a raging fever and a plastered limb, it has been for years; there’s no way to build up a tolerance to it. The clarity will come. I have to believe it will. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/3/dear-diary-march-15-2016/3/
Marah
Just when I finally start to feel settled, a new storm comes and destabilizes my world again. As you all know, I made it to Switzerland, the peaceful and beautiful country, I got married to a great man, and I am finally looking forward to a bright future, next to my husband and my family, whom I love and trust. My family and I have been here for two months and we are finally feeling safe and settled, but one small decision shook our world again, threatening our new lives here.
We received a decision from the government that my middle sister must leave Switzerland for Germany because, according to the law, Germany was the state in which she first applied for asylum and where she was fingerprinted. We were all shocked. How could this girl live away from her own family? Her family is the only thing she has that gives her safety and stability. She has just gotten out of a war zone, and a failed engagement, and she had finally found a place to heal. It is true that she is over 18 years old, and she can theoretically take care of herself, but that does not mean that she should be separated from her own family.
My mother collapsed when she heard the news, and that disturbed us even more. She worked so hard to keep us together, and now she realizes that she might lose her own daughter. My brother was deeply affected by the news and by our mother’s collapse. They have already been living under a lot of pressure—living in the camp with people from different cultures and with different habits was not easy for them. For a moment I had hope that we could do something to change the decision, but later on, we learned that my mother’s application was rejected as well. At that moment, I collapsed as well.
Some of you might think that I have forgotten about my family since I have been talking about my husband a lot, but that can never happen. My family and I are very close. They mean everything to me. The years of war brought us closer to each other, and our close and strong relationship was what helped us get through the impossibly hard times back in Syria.
It seems that I was wrong when I thought that European countries respect human rights and care for the emotional needs of people. They issue general decisions and orders without taking special cases into consideration. What gives them the right to separate our family and scatter us in different countries? How can they ignore all of what we have been through, just because they want to follow the law? What is the goal of the law anyway? Isn’t the law in place to protect people’s rights? I cannot believe that I am in a European country. How about the tolerance they claim to honor? One decision is able to destroy an entire family. My mother worked very hard to get us here. She borrowed heaps of money and is now sinking in debt, only so that we might stay together and live in a safe place. But fate has played its nasty game once again.
When we arrived in Germany, the border patrol forced us to go through the fingerprinting process, although we told them that we were only passing through their country and that our destination was Switzerland. They told us that that it was a necessary procedure, and that it did not mean anything. We only spent two hours in Germany, but it looks like those two hours are meant to change our lives forever.
I cannot believe that the official authorities lied to us. Whom can we trust? No one is reliable. They all lie. This is how life goes. I always thought that refugees were protected, but it looks like they are deprived of all rights. They are not allowed to defend themselves, or even hire a lawyer to defend their cases.
There is nothing in my hands that I can do to help them. I feel helpless, and that stresses me out. I have been fighting with my husband for very silly reasons, and I have completely neglected my studies. Their dilemma occupies my mind, and I cannot focus or even think of anything else. I am tired of facing one obstacle after another. Can’t life just be nice to us?
Finally, I ask for your counsel. Do you know if there is any way to keep them with me, here in Switzerland? Please, help me! ♦
Marah’s diary is produced in collaboration with Syria Deeply, a digital news outlet covering the Syrian crisis. It was translated from the Arabic by Mais Istanbelli.
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/3/dear-diary-march-16-2016/3/
Alyson
I’m waiting for an entity to engulf me so I can escape this bubble of a world, but still have that excuse: “That dang entity! Swallowing me without my permission!” I’m thinking of ways to quit rather than keep going. Which is hard, because I have always had this feeling that there is a destiny that I am supposed to be fulfilling, but falling short of. 
In Greek mythology, there is one story in which a father hears that in the future, his son will murder him and marry his own mother, in his place. In order to escape this fate, he abandons his son. In an unfortunate series of events, it is this abandonment and supposed prevention of the prophecy that leads the son to eventually kill his father and marry his mother. Shucks.
It’s what is known as a self-fulfilling prophecy, and I am sick with the fear that I am becoming one.
As the world turns, mine spins. Am I doing the right things? 
My room is symbolic of my mind: The door is open and there is light, but I hear something that only I can, and it’s so loud I’m scared to get up. How cute everything is, stationary. Except me. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/3/dear-diary-march-17-2016/3/
Britney
When the abjection comes on I become a still of childhood laughter, small barbed baby teeth in a negative film roll. There is no power like my addle power. It pushes me into the woods, timberland in my mind’s recess: I cackle in the bramble bush, I cackle in the bramble bush, I crackle in the bramble bush—
—and when I crawl out and reset my neck, and dust off the white prairie nightgown that Toni gave me I am beyond alive. Laid out in front of me in the forest’s designated heart is the ditch where I will be. I am only allowed a few moments with it, the way it is when God invites souls up for a brief talk in the light, and then I am moved along to the wolves’ arena. This is where I lose myself. Being prey is the most effortless. I’ve never understood why people don’t do it more often. I am the most genuine and content when they leave me as a pile of locks and cotton scraps. It is a good way to be. 
I exit on the river, happy that it isn’t Lethe. I want to remember. I want to believe. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/3/dear-diary-march-18-2016/3/
Cammy
Last weekend was my birthday. I turned 17!!! It feels weird, I’ve wanted to be 17 for so long, I’ve been anticipating this for years and years. And 17 is my lucky number.
I’m already just so excited for everything this year will bring. Maybe I should say why 17 is important? 17 is the year you glo up, and I am so ready to glo up. I don’t just mean physically, but socially, too. I will get over being anxious and I’ll start doing the things I wanna do—talking to people and doing other social things. I think 17 is just universally the best age as a teenager. I don’t know, it’s just so exciting! 
My horoscope for this year predicted a good year for me. I’m so READY to fully believe that. I’m gonna do well at school, and with friends, and *sigh* relationships, and social situations, and art, and ALL THE THINGS. I’m so happy! (P.S. The prediction comes via Cafe Astrology. They have a special thing called, like, “If you were born this day,” and it lays out your whole year based on your birthday. Mine was really good. And accurate.) ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/3/dear-diary-march-21-2016/3/
Thahabu
As I’ve been looking at schools I’d like to transfer to, I’ve been shocked to find that a few don’t have a Muslim Student Association (MSA). Muslim, Middle Eastern, and South Asian people have been subject to unfair treatment in this country, especially after 9/11. But right now, we’re at critical time when the marginalization of Muslims is very visible in the media. There’s no reason a school shouldn’t have some kind of organization that offers these students a safe space.
This is important to me because, having dealt with being ostracized on campus as a black person, I felt really alone until I met my good friend Nihal. She’s a Palestinian Muslim girl who kicks ass in every aspect of life. She’s so ambitious and motivated, she inspires me every day. We bonded over a common frustration with these boys in our sociology class last year, who’d sit in the back of the room and making frightening comments about people of color and women. One even suggested that black people benefitted from slavery because they were allowed to come to “our country.” I totally lost it. I turned around, looked him dead in the face, and called him stupid. Nihal thought it was so funny. She liked my energy and thought I was passionate, saying, “You were meant to make noise in the world!” She eventually introduced to me to her other friends in our school’s MSA and I instantly clicked with the vice president, Razan. I was suddenly part of a new friend group where I felt at ease. We share stories with each other and offer to help one another in whatever ways we can. They make me feel welcome in a place where I feel like an outcast. No one has held me down at this school the way they have. 
Now whenever tragedies like the Chapel Hill shooting happen, or an act of terror is perpetrated by extremists, my heart drops, not only with the standard fear of, I hope no one harasses or harms Muslims out of ignorance, but also,
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/3/dear-diary-march-22-2016/3/
Keianna
The speed at which I’m growing up is overwhelming. Wasn’t my 16th birthday like two days ago? How can we have already been living in this new house for almost a year? It’s incredible that I didn’t notice all of these things changing around me, but now the pressure to keep moving forward and get things done is pushing me down.
This feeling of IMPENDING DOOM is usually triggered when I’m not doing anything. If given even a second without something to busy myself I start to freak out. The realization that so much time has gone by and I haven’t changed or accomplished the goals I set for myself terrifies me. Why can’t I just start pursuing them? Why can’t I get past the fear of putting myself out there? 
I’m looking at what I’ve just written and already starting to feel anxious. This is a good time to remind myself to calm down. I have time. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/3/dear-diary-march-23-2016/3/
Britney
We are reading Hamlet now. Ophelia has gone from being the Eve to my Lilith to the idle girl who says, “There’s rosemary, that’s for remembrance,” of her dead father, “And there is pansies; that’s for thoughts,” of her former love. I understand.
I buy a nightgown because it reminds me of a past life (the past life?) and spend the weekend reading in it, feeling at home in myself and feeling the same fear that being in this dress must have brought me then. Some mementos of what we really are are best left behind, underneath the dirt where no one ever thought to look. The duality informs me.
I say the same things a lot, like a wooden wheel. Everyone has a weakness for rustic appeal. I don’t do it purposely, I don’t think anyone does. I keep track of who clings to the spokes, and who has run, and who is trampled upon my release. Categorization has become easier with the years, people even more so than trinkets and fetishes. I think about how I will grow out of this thought. I think about working to keep it. I wonder how close or far I am to peak rationality because of this and decide not to look up too far—for now, this is the safest place on the alp. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/3/dear-diary-march-24-2016/3/
Kiana
These words may fail to embody the fullness and beauty, but here’s how it is, time and again.
I find myself ensconced in a space not altogether strange—a space of deep introspection and of consciousness streaming mercilessly. I roam freely here; genderless, fluid, resembling a faerie. The colors I see are white, gold, silvery white, and more gold. It’s a sea of beautiful feelings. It’s a transfixing trance-like space, and I am a captive of its beauty. Sometimes this space arrests me with terror, but it has been nice, so far, dwelling here. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/3/dear-diary-march-25-2016/3/
Keianna
My thoughts on thoughts are my favorite to think about. (Dr. Seuss, is that you?) They are confusing and curious. Some are innovative and others downright harmful. As of right now, I’m getting an equal mix of both, but ask me again in two minutes and I’ll probably give you a completely different answer. I wonder how thoughts work. What happens in my brain that makes that little voice say all the things that inspire actions and formative life decisions. I could probably google it but this is the one thing I’d like to stay in the dark about. 
I’m very glad, and equally upset, that I can’t read other people’s thoughts. You just don’t know what’s going on in their head and that’s so frustrating. Do they really like me? Am I annoying? Does it matter? Probably not. 
Maybe I’m overthinking? that’s not a rare occurrence at all. Once, I thought about the same song lyric for three days straight. When I was seven, I convinced myself that I made one of my cousins up, just because I hadn’t seen them for a year. Why would I do that? I don’t know but it’s something to think about. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/3/dear-diary-march-28-2016/3/
Lilly
Under the spring equinox sun, the beach is flat and wide and blindingly bright. The water has not yet warmed to the season, but all around me people are stripping off shirts and sprinting for the waves, where the currents clash at the tip of the island.
“Lilly, let’s go!” comes the inevitable shout. I’m not wearing a swimsuit, so I wade in up to the knee, the salt and the chill biting at my calves. The next wave soaks me to the waist, and I don’t know if I yell “Screw it!” or just think it, but my shirt is coming off and I am diving into the ocean in a sports bra and running shorts.
It is peaceful, floating among the breakers, the natural buoyancy of my body allowing me to rise and fall over each swell that passes me by. My dad is next to me, now. The heat is eating through the sunscreen I’ve smeared liberally on my shoulders. All I can hear is the wind and the waves and someone yelling at me from the shore. Someone yelling at me? Multiple voices, now. I tilt my head to hear them better. “Look!” The screams carry. “Turn around! You guys! It’s a manatee!”
We turn around; me, my dad, a family friend nearby. Not two yards away from my feet in the water is a large, dark mass, round and soft-looking, distorted enough by the water and sunlight that it could be a patch of seaweed. But it is moving, and I hear my dad’s sharp intake of breath as we stumble backwards, and out of its way, tiny rip currents toying with our ankles as we go. It floats past us, at once leisurely and purposeful. For a moment its rounded snout is visible, its broad fins, the smooth quality of its skin. It is right there. So close I could reach out and touch it. So close that had I not moved it might have bumped against my ankles and caused more panic than wonder.
But here I am, watching it go by, and the moment it is past us we all let out a breath and start laughing, because it’s our first day on the coast and here is this great being, a creature we might see once on our week-long trip if we’re lucky, like a welcoming. Later that night I am sunburned and uncomfortable and, although surrounded by people, alone. But in that moment I was alive. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/3/dear-diary-march-29-2016/3/
Ananda
1. You are not alone, however much it may seem that way.
2. You are valid, what you feel is valid, your entire existence is valid.
3. You are good. This doesn’t dismiss the days where you feel bad or have bad thoughts or even wish ill on others. You are good and you have it in you to be even better.
4. Let’s take some actions. Eat something today, it doesn’t have to be an entire meal. It could be just a handful of grapes or a biscuit. It will make you feel OK, promise.
5. Clean yourself up, have a bath, take a shower, brush your teeth, or just have a “stand up bath” using a washcloth. Whatever you can manage.
6. Do something that comforts you. Cooking, writing, drawing, watching your favorite show, stroking your cat. Whatever it is, make sure you feel safe and relaxed doing it.
7. Dance your troubles away. I’m being serious, put on your favourite happy tunes and just dance. It doesn’t matter how much rhythm you have, just do it. It can really help.
8. Open the window. You need some fresh air and I know that going outside isn’t always an option. So open the window.
9. Remember that you are here. Feel yourself, become aware of your body. Understand that you’ve made it this far, all my yourself, you’ve made it to this point. You can do that again, you can do it every day.
10. Now, take another day. Take one at a time. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/3/dear-diary-march-30-2016/3/
Marah
Life keeps swinging. Sometimes it is on one side and sometimes it’s on the other. This week, life has been on my side, and it opened doors of happiness for me.
March 21, the first day of spring, is also the date when Mother’s Day is celebrated in Syria. I decided to visit my mother and surprise her with a cake and a little present. But it was me who was surprised. My birthday was a week before, but I did not celebrate it, because I was with my husband at his family’s place. When we arrived at my mother’s to celebrate Mother’s Day with her, she surprised me by having prepared a cake with my name written on it with icing. The Mother’s Day celebration that I was planning to have turned into a birthday party for me. I was extremely thankful for what she did for me. I kissed her with tears in my eyes, because neither the harsh circumstances in which she lives, nor the fact that she is in a refugee camp stopped her from finding a way to bring happiness to my heart. She is just wonderful, and she deserves love, respect, and obedience.
In our society, mothers hold a very high status, and when mothers age, it is the children’s duty to take care of them, and even after they die, we are required to pray frequently for them and ask God to have mercy on them. Things are different in the West. Kids here separate from their parents when they turn 18, and they move out to live by themselves. When the kids get married, they almost forget about their parents, and they let them spend the rest of their lives in a retirement home. That’s not acceptable in our society, and I do not think I will let go of the traditions I grew up with, no matter how long I spend here.
My birthday party was not the only good thing that happened to me this week. I also received the key to my new apartment. My husband and I have been shopping for furniture. The apartment is pretty small, with only one bedroom, but I see it as a castle filled with dreams, peace, stability. You cannot imagine how happy and excited I am. 
My experiences this week have motivated me and given me an enthusiasm for life. I feel energetic and I’m working hard on my German language studies. I’m learning very fast, and the best and funniest part is that I am becoming better than my husband at German grammar! When I first arrived, and because I did not know the language, I felt unable to do anything without my husband, so learning and being better than him has actually made me feel very good about myself. His conversational skills are much better than mine, and he is really happy and proud that I’m learning fast. He always encourages me to practice, so, for example, he wants me to go to school and to go shopping by myself. I have also been visiting my mother by myself. Although she lives far away from my city, I learned how to take the train to the camp.
I feel strong and confident. I feel that I am a real grown up, and that I am not a child anymore. I do not know why, when I first arrived, I preferred to depend on my husband for many things. Perhaps it was because I had just arrived in a new place, or perhaps it was because I was too tired and needed someone to take care of me for a while. In any case, I now feel liberated, and I am building my own network; I’ve already made some friends at school.
There is one little thing that still worries me: My family has been rejected asylum here. I really hope that they do not have to go back to Germany. I do not know how I can continue with my life without my mother near me. She is my source of strength. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/3/dear-diary-march-31-2016/3/
Keianna
The day of my little brother’s birthday party, I wasn’t feeling my best. Although my outfit was chosen and perfected days in advance, and my curls FINALLY looked the way I wanted them to, something was off. And I couldn’t shake the feeling, despite compliments and positive comments from others.
So, I did what the stereotypical angsty teenager would do and locked myself in my bedroom. I turned my mirror to face the wall and started a YouTube video binge. That was going fine until my thoughts got in the way—as always.
SCENE ONE
Me lying on my bed watching the people at BuzzFeed doing something odd but cool.
Me: Dang working for BuzzFeed must be so cool I’d love to do that.
My brain: Yeah but maybe we should be working out why you’re feeling so off.
Me: I mean, I guess, but BuzzFeed employs a lot of inspiring people of color and I’m really here for that. They also have a lot of videos dealing with topics you don’t hear discussed too often.
My brain: Do they have one about loving and treating yourself right?
Me: Lol, yeah right! Here let’s watch it.
END SCENE
Oh. OH. OK, my brain might be onto something here. I don’t treat myself as nicely as I should. I stress out, procrastinate, then belittle myself because of it. That’s not good at all. I’m a gorgeous princess and no one, not even myself, is going to tell me otherwise.
SCENE TWO
Me rejoining the party with a smile on my face.
Me: Grandma, will you take a picture of me? I look great. 
END SCENE
This week, when I’ve walked by the mirror I haven’t avoided my own gaze, or shifted awkwardly while trying to decide if the outfit I’m wearing looks OK on me. Instead, I’ve smiled at myself and I’ve even taken a few selfies for the first time, well…ever. I’ve looked nice every day this week; I’m sure I’ve looked nice my entire life but this week, I believed it. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/2/dear-diary-february-1-2016/3/
Kiana
I subscribed to Justin Wolfe’s TinyLetter, Thank You Notes, two weeks ago. The emails I’ve received so far have been delightful—they have a cheery, pick-you-up feel to them. I’m inspired by this concept, so I think I’m going to share my thank you notes, too.
I’m thankful for:
1. My grandmother’s kindness. The way she lets me sleep in most days, and waits for me to wake up so we can go out together. How she understands when I need to be quiet and alone. How she doesn’t pressure me about any life plan or action, like going back to college, or doing laundry.
2. The way my dog Daisy waits on me whenever I go out to run some errands. How she always comes running excitedly when I get back, little puppy dog head circling about as she leaps and tumbles on my feet. The way she seldom wants to be held or carried, which is teaching me very important lessons about dependency.
3. The most blessedly unruly part of me, my brain. When it doesn’t let me sleep at night, rendering me a night-watch patrol on duty. How it is fascinated by even the littlest, simplest things.
4. The books that I can comfortably read when I can’t fall asleep. The books I can comfortably dip in and out of. The books that are still piled on my floor, without a shelf to secure them. The books that compel me to do something, or nothing. The books that have been recommended to me by great women. The books that remain unbought and unread, which I always think of.
5. High-res pictures of makeup looks, especially eyeliner styles. I found this one style of putting on eyeliner recently, on Tumblr, and I’ve been doing it ever since.
6. The overwhelming and sometimes confusing amount of life hacks and DIYs I can find online.
7. Teenagers who religiously attend to their blogs, hobbies, band or dance or sports practices. Teenagers who dress up just because. Those who paint their nails and their lids just because. The way they make me cry, sometimes, in my room. The way they reflect who I have been, who I am. How they comfort me, always, in all ways, and make me realize that youth is never lost, even though I’ve been such a paranoid nineteen-er lately, crying to Katie Yewell’s sketchbooks.
8. How my being a paranoid nineteen-er leads me to discomfort sometimes. How this discomfort brings me to a place I’ve been to before, but only momentarily: a place of whim, hobbies, endless scribbling, collaging, and colouring even though I’m actually not good with any of these. How this desire to keep my youth and freeze who I am right now took me out of my own mind and taught me not to care, to just do what I love doing.
9. The way I know that I’m gonna laugh this paranoia off five years from now, and the way I know there’s a looming uncertainty to this premise.
10. Everyone who has crossed my path, and whose paths I’ve crossed; the memories and moments we’ve shared. How I’ll always remember almost drowning in a pool with a friend right after I jumped to save her—she was the one who drowned first. How another friend jumped in when he saw there were two almost casualties flailing in the pool. I’m thankful for friends who disguise themselves as saviors, as Jesus. Wait, maybe they ARE Jesus, personified once again. WELP, WATCH OUT, WORLD. How I’d always yearn to hold my friends’ hands, braid their hair, watch TV shows with them, have dinners, and Thanksgivings, and Christmases with them.
11. My life, how I get tired of it from time to time but have always found a way to get back up. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/2/dear-diary-february-2-2016/3/
Alyson
Watching the Picasso documentary in art class—nine separate YouTube videos—I’m intercepting a message from the great guy himself (for any of you who know Picasso history, I use “great” here to mean his presence and existence was large and important). In my art class, everyone wants to know exactly what you’re thinking and what your project is. I never try to explain. But now, even if I wanted to, it wouldn’t translate.
What do I do to have a nine-part YouTube series about me? What do I do to have a random art class, in a small but growing town, analyze my life for an entire three weeks? What do I do?
I want, right then, to have a power that pours down, that even my haters can’t ignore, because what I have created is entirely inescapable. Once it has halted, I want to be alive in the watery concrete and sweaty windshields. I’ll drip down their cars while they flick a gear to wipe me away but the rain is necessary and doesn’t stop despite their good-for-nothing flicks, so neither will I.
Hello from the outside, sure. I can appreciate the warmth inside of a practical family vehicle. I have always liked them more when I am passing them on the freeway.
Am I doing enough?
Human me thinks so.
“What are you doing for your project?”
“I can’t really explain.” ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/2/dear-diary-february-3-2016/3/
Thahabu
Do you ever feel so empty that it hurts?
Everything is stale.
The television is dull no matter how much you try to use it as a substitute for color.
Black and white isn’t appealing, either.
You try and you try
to fill yourself up with frivolous things.
But you don’t feel good about anything anymore.
A show is playing but all I see is static. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/2/dear-diary-february-4-2016/3/
Simone
It was the last night before my second week of midterms. I was cramming and worrying and babysitting. And then it started: the sinking feeling in my lower left side which always seems to come around the end of the month. It was the 31st. It made sense. I was getting my period. 
As I’ve gotten older, the severity of my menstrual cramps has increased quite a lot. What once started as tolerable abdominal pains has evolved into nausea, vomiting, and crippling pain in my lower torso. My pragmatic stubbornness led to a loose self-diagnosis of endometriosis, which I believed I could solve with a healthier diet and a prescription for the Pill. As usual, I was wrong.
That night, I spent a half hour or so throwing up any food or liquid left in my body. I told my parents what was going on, but refused to let them take me home. The game of chasing paper is a hard one to quit. The woman I was babysitting for came back, I started to feel better, she paid me, and I left. Responsibly, I didn’t even tell her about the liters of gastric acid I’d dumped in her septic tank.
I woke up the next morning and crammed and worried some more, and then the pain hit me, suddenly, and sharply. I doubled over, and bowed out of the possibility of going to school. A doctor’s visit, ultrasound, and frantic phone call revealed a reality I’d adverted since these pains started years ago. I had a bleeding, 10-centimeter cyst inside of me. And I needed emergency surgery to get it out.
The miracle of modern narcotics has left me with very little memory of the experience. Now I’m home. It’s all over and done, and I’m fine. I left the hospital with one less cyst, one less ovary, and one less fallopian tube.
The only real challenge of this situation was wondering who to tell. It seemed gross and weird to explain my reproductive health to the boys who were asking, but in retrospect this was just socially-induced pettiness. If grown men could examine the areas in and around my cooch for the two days I’d been the hospital, I could tell anyone what operation I’d had. But there was a hint of sadness and pity in everyone’s response, as if somehow my new lack of these organs—and subsequently decreased fertility—would leave me an unfulfilled woman. And on an evolutionary level, does this make me less attractive to potential mates? Will this fateful experience solidify my fear of dying alone?
I knew I needed to stop being so in my head. I’d mastered that before the surgery. I wasn’t worried about bleeding out on the operating table, or finding cancer, or dying, but instead how painful having an IV placed in my hand it would be. And it wasn’t. They found a good vein in my arm. In the end, all things fall into place. Everything will be fine. I just have to keep reminding myself.
In some ways, this was a blessing. I would’ve died from internal bleeding or infection had I not gone to the ER when I did. Also, I have a lot more time to study for midterms now. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/2/dear-diary-february-5-2016/3/
Ananda
So, I’m sitting here at my bus stop waiting for the 10:15 bus to get to my college and it just dawned on me how much of our lives we spend waiting. Waiting for the bus or the train. Waiting for a phone call or for the kettle to stop boiling. Waiting for firsts, waiting for lasts. Waiting for love and passion and waiting for contentment and happiness.
I read somewhere once that there are two kinds of waiting, the waiting you do for something you know is coming and the waiting you do for the things you don’t.
It’s so much easier to wait for timings and days that we know are always just around the corner than to wait for moments and for words left unsaid.
It is known that ”a watched pot never boils” and that “once you stop looking, it will appear”—whatever “it” is for you. But as humans, our eyes are forever on the clock and we are forever waiting. And I think what we wait for with the most intensity is for our lives to begin. And for our lives to end. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/2/dear-diary-february-8-2016/3/
Cammy
The argument I had with my friend has had a bigger impact than I thought. For the most part, I thought that I was doing well. I avoided a lot of triggering things and thought I was dealing with my depression. But, really, so many new shitty things have happened that this past year was probably the worst for my depression. I had the weird relationship thing, and then the fights with my dad, and the emotional neglect from my mom. And now I have this bad situation with one of my closest friends. 
It’s weird because I’m still mad at her but she was so involved in my life that she’s left a lot of empty space. I didn’t like hanging out with her so much after school but now I just walk to Peet’s every day by myself—my best friend has soccer practice after school so I can’t hang out with her. I don’t want to feel lonely. What’s worse is that there are some really cool girls I’ve wanted to be friends with for a long time, and recently said they want to be my friend, too, but I’m so anxious about hanging out with them that I don’t even know if I can do it! I really wish I could suck it up for my own good, but anxiety doesn’t really work like that. Even when I think it’s alright it’s really not. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/2/dear-diary-february-9-2016/3/
Fatma
I’ve been thinking a lot about faith recently, which is mostly due to me watching The Seventh Seal not too long ago. The film made me realise that faith is like believing in something that is in the dark. You can’t see it, but you know that it’s there. You have faith in it (the film really portrays this well). Whether “it” is “god” or “your end of year test results,” the formula for faith stays the same. I find that really cool. 
I have recently fallen in love with the song “Crazy” by Aerosmith. It’s a ’90s jam with the dreamiest music video I’ve ever seen—it makes me weirdly emotional. I guess I have finally come to realise how different the world is today compared to 20 years ago. 
When I think about it, my thoughts about faith and nostalgia aren’t that different. The Alicia Silverstone and Liv Tyler who star in that Aerosmith video may not be the same today, but that doesn’t mean I can’t believe in them as they were then. Just because I live in 2016 and TV shows, music, and people are different now, doesn’t mean I can’t revisit the ’90s—for me, they still exist. I’m reassured that ’90s music videos will always be there waiting for me, no matter how much time passes. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/2/dear-diary-february-10-2016/3/
Kiana
I find myself constantly surprised by the magic of the people in my orbit. It becomes a strange sensation for me—at times I find my ability to feel this way unbelievable—but I always remind myself that this is a good thing. It’s another harmless way of taking myself out of my head.
I’ve been watching a lot of films and TV shows lately because my Netflix free trial expires tomorrow. I don’t want to commit to Netflix yet, since most of my beloved TV shows (Friends, Mad Men) still aren’t available for streaming in the Philippines. 
Three nights ago, I found myself watching the two Sex and the City movies. Two hours later, I was sobbing my eyes out. My tears brought to mind one particular incident of public crying at a remittance shop, back in 2015. It was the worst—trying to be inconspicuous while sobbing through an anxiety fit around people who looked like they cared, but who were actually just curious. I swear, nobody should ever feel constrained in public ever again. Ugh, I’m such a deep well of EMO-tions and tears, and I’m proud of it!!!
(To do: Cry more, and make space for people’s magic to shine through. So be it, see to it!) ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/2/dear-diary-february-11-2016/3/
Alyson
“What could be your biggest challenge? What keeps you from achieving your goals?”
Um, everything? Earth, wind, fire. Me. This bug that I didn’t see before coming out of the cracks, but now that I do I won’t let it touch me. Scraping whatever loose rock fragments I can from the wall, I drag my hand off the rough wedge of stone that could maybe be cool in an edgy way? Public school, man. 
But because I am a #maturehuman I say, “HAHAH, maybe the fact that I try to function as at least three people at all times, that tends to get in the way. Darn 24 hours! Anyway, yeah, I definitely overextend myself, but there’s just so much that I want to do, you know?”
You know? I hope they know. But flip, this isn’t even college, this is a pre-college inquiry. I really didn’t even want to be at school today—first time in a while that I haven’t—and I could totally complain about how inadequate I felt talking to X from Z Academy. I liked it, though. Being tele-connected to a college rep from San Francisco outside of my fourth period art class by an invisible string o’ magic was almost like being out of school for 10 minutes. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/2/dear-diary-february-12-2016/3/
Keianna
This week has been hectic to say the least. 
It’s been living inside my head.
It’s been dancing with my angst.
It’s been completing day-to-day tasks while trying to shake off the feeling something bad is going to happen.
It’s been my slippery words sliding out of my head when they weren’t supposed to.
I’ve never been the one to cover my ears to the sometimes deafening sound of others opinions without saying something, but this week I just couldn’t handle it.
This week I let myself feel without being afraid of my thoughts.
This week was hectic to say the least, and one of the best I’ve had in a while. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/2/dear-diary-february-15-2016/3/
Cammy
Is it weird to be writing about how great things are when just last week I was writing about how bad things are? The good thing is I’m a lot happier and that’s what matters. I am expanding my friend group, which is so exciting because I’ve wanted to be friends with this group of people for a REALLY long time. These people are so cool, which made me so nervous that I put them on a pedestal. I started devaluing myself: I was 100 percent sure that I would never be as good as them. Of course that’s not true!! I’m really cool and I’m funny and I’m doing great things, and I shouldn’t make myself feel inferior to kids who are just like me. Once I’d figured that out things started opening up for me. Can you believe that in the past few days I talked to them more than I have in the last two and a half years??? It’s so strange how a while ago I was crying because I was so anxious about hanging out with them, and now I feel more relaxed about it. I’m so proud of myself! 
I’m not totally over being anxious, but it’s going away gradually. (I didn’t ever think I would stop being anxious about this and now I’m certain that feeling will go away!) I’m a little scared that all these good vibes will crash, and that by the end of the week I’ll be sad and crying and talking about how terrible everything is, but I’m trying to push those thoughts away. I want things to stay the way they are right now for a long, long time. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/2/dear-diary-february-16-2016/3/
Simone
As a kid, Valentine’s Day meant the attainment of small holographic cards and exorbitant amounts of candy. My parents gave me presents now and then. I wore pink and red, and when I remembered to, I called my grandmother and told her I loved her. I knew Valentine’s Day was a capitalist sham, and that I loved everyone as much on this day as I did any other. But, I assumed one day, the holiday would include a real, live boyfriend. One with whom I’d share a love passionate and everlasting, and exchange lovely gifts, and spend the day and evening.
Adolescent Valentine’s Days are nothing similar to how I’d envisioned them, but I don’t necessarily have a problem with that. My singleness makes me all the more experimental and free. When I do want intimacy, I can seek it out without having to worry about something as daunting as COMMITMENT. And most people I know only commit to long-term relationships to create a sense of maturity. Things like driving and experimenting with illicit substances (while NOT simultaneously) have that same effect upon the rest of us.
I felt lonely today, but I know wouldn’t have if I’d been with my friends, or spent more time with my family. I also have no idea what a romantic Valentine’s Day is supposed to feel like—I’ve never been in a serious relationship, and the only man I’ve ever loved is Harry Styles. In a sense, Valentine’s Day means nothing to me because it never did.
I guess the most noteworthy thing about this holiday is that my birthday is November 14th. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/2/dear-diary-february-17-2016/3/
Alyson
I wasn’t used to waking up at 6:30 AM when I started middle school. As a kid, I always had a hard time falling asleep. Even then, my head was buzzing with so many ideas and in so many directions that it couldn’t help but propel me out of bed and to my desk, covered in the remains of old stickers and glitter that had been trapped in the light stickiness. I needed to keep going. I was scared to lose any ideas. 
But that wasn’t my only fear. Alone in the dark with a buzzing mind and carbonated imagination, the switch from ignorant bliss to utter petrification was flipped once my parents closed their door. 
People say that change is what ignites fear. New house, new school, new noise. Sixth grade was tucking myself into bed while my family and my hall light were still on, but would soon be off. My room was bigger, which meant more darkness. Everything was still but my pumping insides. Pumping to catch up. 
“I’m too tired to be scared.” ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/2/dear-diary-february-18-2016/3/
Keianna
I don’t know what I was trying to prove. I’m not even sure who I was trying to prove myself to, but refusing the piercing was followed by an empty feeling.
Why not do it? I’ve wanted to do something new for a while and we’re right here. Besides it’s just cartilage. Nothing serious at all.
“Uncle, I want to get my cartilage pierced after all.”
This is what being a teenager is all about, right? Trying new things and discovering what you like?
I wondered if it was too late to say never mind as the stranger drew an X on my ear. I squeezed my eyes shut and gripped my uncle’s hand as the quick, sharp pain spread through my ear. 
I’ve decided that my piercing is one of my favorite impulse decisions, but that doesn’t make sleeping on it hurt any less. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/2/dear-diary-february-19-2016/3/
Kiana
I miss the feeling of romance welling up in the gaping hole of my heart. I miss being a hopeless romantic.
I’m trying to get better now, after about five years of being obsessed with someone who can’t love me back. There are relapses sometimes, but I swear I have no more strength to go back to how things were between us. I’m trying not to believe in the idea that maybe, just maybe, we weren’t as good with or at love as we are at writing.
Sorry, dear diary, for keeping you full of nostalgia and neg ~feels~. I think I’m just so spent, and tired of being loved and needed for what I do and provide for others, instead of being loved as I am—whatever the hell that means. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/2/dear-diary-february-22-2016/3/
Simone
2016 Census Form
Name: Simone A. Rembert
Gender: Does anyone really know?
Race: Social construct
Age: 14—wait sorry, I meant 17
State of Residence: Dirty Jerzzzz
Number of current pimples: 10
Number of healing acne scars: 2
Number of blackheads removed by Biore Pore Strips: Not enough to prompt higher self-esteem, but enough to satisfy compulsive desire to see gunk on strip.
Number of missing homework assignments: 1
Number of missing homework assignments (INCLUDING MATH): 11
Hours of sleep recorded on average weeknight: 4.5-5.5
Hours of sleep recorded on average weekend night: 12
Hours spent on phone in an average day: Answering the question would mean admitting to having a problem
Hours spent doing homework on an average day: 0.5
Hours spent outside on an average day: 0.25
Money spent within the past week: $167.34
Most commonly bought item: Pizza
Number of boys currently “talking to”: 0, goddamnit. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/2/dear-diary-february-23-2016/3/
Marah
As a little girl I dreamt of growing up to wear high heels. Then this dream evolved to become about a handsome man who would come on a white horse and take me to a wonderful world that is much better than my reality.
The years I lived in the midst of war suffocated all of my dreams, and led me to believe that these dreams were dead and would never come to life again. But I was completely wrong. Dreams do not die. They might become overshadowed by pain and sadness, but they never disappear.
When I came to Switzerland, I fell for a man that I had never met before. It was as if I had been waiting to meet him forever. My life has changed tremendously since I met him—I am now a married woman with responsibilities and social relationships that are very different from those I had before.
I am very happy with my new home, and I am very much in love with this man, with whom I share my life in all its details. But what disturbs my life is the fear that still inhabits me. The fear that developed over years of horror and pain refuses to depart from my mind and heart. Even when I am asleep, I hold my husband’s hand like a little child attached to its mother. Perhaps I am too scared to lose the love and happiness he has given me, or is it because I finally found the warm and loving hand that I had dreamed of for years? I do not know, but I know that I do not deal with my husband as a partner—I often act like a little girl, seeking his love and kindness. I sometimes manage to take the role of wife and partner, but I usually fail, and act like a little girl again.
Unfortunately, he is happy with me acting like that. He is happy to play the role of the husband and the father at the same time, because he believes that a father’s love is unconditional. But I don’t like that he accepts my behavior, and complies with my desire to be treated like a little girl, because I know that my behavior is wrong, and I wish that he would criticize me and help me change.
I am, of course, not trying to blame him. I understand that he wants to please me, and that he thinks this behavior will disappear as soon as I settle and feel safe. But I am sure this is not something that will go away with time. I am too attached to him, and I feel that this fixation (affection?) is like a symptom of a disease caused by the losses I faced in my life. Someone once said, “Identifying your issues is the first step to solving them,” and I hope that this applies to me. I am scared to lose those I love, and this goes back to losing my father, and then to losing so many things—security and dignity—along the way.
As for my life in this new place, I find it really hard to deal with Swiss people. They are kind people—they smile every time they see me. I sometimes wonder if they smile because they like me, or because they feel sorry for me. But what makes my life hard is that I do not speak their language. I live in Bern where the spoken language is German, which is not a language I speak. I sometimes feel like a mute person. I cannot communicate or interact with people. Although I use English with people sometimes, I should learn German as soon as possible. Language is our main means of communication, and I cannot live without interacting with others.
I am amazed by the Swiss respect for law and order. People are very respectful and considerate, no matter where they are: in the street, in shops, or in train stations. The other thing that amazes me is how much they respect time. Trains, which are a great means of transportation, are very punctual, which was a little overwhelming in the beginning, because in Syria we never learned to respect time. I feel that I will learn a lot in this country. Switzerland combines great traditions with modern science and education, and I know that I will finally become the person I always wanted to be.
I always wonder what and how I can give back to this country that has welcomed me. Life is like a circle, and a person’s happiness is never complete unless she gives back. I hope I’ll figure out a way to thank this country with my deeds. I will, however, never forget Syria, and will never stop loving it. It is my home country. I love it and I want to help it, despite all the pain it caused me. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/2/dear-diary-february-24-2016/3/
Alyson
I’m my own bad parent. I guess I didn’t have enough bad influences in my life, so I became one. 
No one throws stones at me but myself. I tell myself that I avoided looking at my reflection because I wanted to look to the right for five more steps until someone opened the door and mirror-me had gone. Whoops. Missed it! I told him thanks, but not for opening the door.
I say to myself that I naturally fall asleep this way, legs just too far away from each other, because the stretch feels good. Not at all because I don’t know how to deal with the fact that my inner thighs might touch if they come together. I can’t. 
I’m the dad who will vanish only to turn up one day, like nothing has been missed, like nothing is wrong. Because if you tell yourself it isn’t, then is it, really? ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/2/dear-diary-february-25-2016/3/
Keianna
Making drastic changes in my life has kinda been my thing lately. I don’t know why I decided to shed the protective cover that was the people I hung out with. It might have just been time for a change. I’ve been trying to justify it in so many different ways but honestly I wasn’t happy where I was. Even typing that was scary. Leaving what you’ve known for more than three years, so suddenly, is scary.
Yet, I have to admit it hasn’t been hard to get used to. I may have a smaller number of friends, but I wouldn’t trade them for the world. I feel listened to and loved. I feel like this is the support system I’ve needed all along. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/2/dear-diary-february-26-2016/3/
Lilly
Every year, my entire school takes a week off of regular classes and gives students and teachers and parents the opportunity to teach or attend a short, four-day class on anything their heart desires. Last year, I took fencing, and I was better at it than I expected. This year, one of my friends offers a class in kenjutsu, Japanese swordsmanship, and I think, Why not? and put my name down on the list. We don’t have the time to go into any real depth, but by the end of the week my friend is using me as an example to show people proper form in each movement. “You catch on quickly,” he says. When we practice blocks the force of his blows is enough to leave a black rash on the flat of my blade, shorn from the electrical tape crisscrossing his own. But he is not afraid of hurting me, and I am not afraid I will be hurt by him. The movements are simple but they make me feel strong for an hour a day.
***
Despite it all I begin to feel lost again. It is hard to explain, and not comfortable, but I try to constantly remind myself of something I told my counselor not too long ago:
“I just—I want to live on my own terms. So that’s what I’m doing. I’m done owing explanations. I’m myself. I’ll let people make their own assumptions if that’s what makes them happy.”
She was smiling, but she looked like she was going to cry.
“Don’t cry,” I was half pleading, half laughing at this point. “Don’t cry, that’s my job.” (Hadn’t I done enough for the both of us? She did chuckle, though.)
***
Soccer season starts in less than a week. While I am yearning for the chance to play on a real field again, sometimes I feel like something is holding me back. Maybe it’s the scar still latched onto my ankle like a ball and chain; maybe it’s the heavy emphasis my coach is already placing on our fitness getting to me, making me look at my body in a different light, not necessarily a positive one.
Realistically, I know that I am healthy and I will be fine. It’s just hard when my body gets tired before I do and old twinges in the muscles of my legs come out of hibernation like it’s already spring like, Is it time? Is it time to come back? It’s a dull kind of pain that’s closer to soreness, and one that I’m used to. But that doesn’t mean it’s not hard.
I am simultaneously fearful that I will not be enough and angry at myself for breaking my promise. Soccer is the sport I love but it’s also my greatest weakness. It makes me feel like I need to continuously explain myself. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/1/dear-diary-january-4-2016/3/
Cammy
This past week I’ve been sick and tired of feeling so strongly about a dud romantic relationship of mine. I want to start the new year fresh, and holding on to something that happened nine months ago isn’t helping. It’s important to address my feelings, I’m a really firm believer in not invalidating your feelings; however, it’s possible that I’ve gone too far. I’ve spent a lot of nights crying because I’m trying to figure out what’s going on. There’s something I want but I don’t know what it is. I know there are concrete things I’m upset about, like how this person made me feel so powerful and loved and now they make me feel like garbage. Or how this person is dating someone else and doesn’t really mind me anymore.
But I don’t know how to fix any it. Sometimes when I’m crying, thinking about this, I get really angry and impulsive and text that person something sloppy and unreasonable, and that doesn’t fix it. I try to let my feelings out as often as I need to so they don’t get bottled up, but that doesn’t fix it.
One of the things that made this situation so hard is I couldn’t talk to my mom about it. I’m really uncomfortable talking to her about issues revolving around my sexuality. A teacher outed me to my mom a few years ago: That was scary. Even scarier is that my stepdad is very, very homophobic. So, I felt that if I spoke to my mom, she’d tell him and it would be terrible to live with them if he knew. Still, it’s so upsetting that I can’t talk to her about this. I remember watching shows where a girl would be heartbroken and she would talk to her mom about it and things would get better, because moms can fix everything, ya know? It’s so devastating that I can’t talk to my mom about my first truly painful heartbreak. 
It’s all very frustrating for me to think about this stuff because so far nothing has really changed. On my private Instagram account, I try to talk about it but it feels impersonal. I don’t really know how to express how much of an impact this has on my life. Luckily, I have people who listen to me, and their advice is to cut this person off. I’ve always created excuses about why I can’t do that—I would walk past this couple at least twice every morning, and I ran a club with this this person! But with the new year, I just got tired. I’m starting to understand that I didn’t go on Tumblr or Snapchat very often because I didn’t want to see anything they posted with their current S.O., and I unintentionally cut off some friends doing that. Beyond that, my sad feelings would lead me to self-sabotage, and I’d look through their Snapchat story or their tag on their blog, searching for their S.O. on purpose, just to make myself more sad. And now I’m just tired of being sad!! And I don’t want to feel this way anymore!! I’m growing angry because I should be angry!! I know that I can’t get them out of my life completely, since I see them so often IRL. So maybe it was impulsive to cut them off on all social media, but I can say it’s made me feel so much better. I feel more at ease, and proud of myself for taking control of this! 
I feel a little guilty but I just think about how they wronged me. I think about how things would have been. I was so in love with this person that I was going risk it and come out to my mom and to everyone. I wonder how different my life would be if I’d done that. 
Even though this thing happened so long ago, I still have a lot of questions. What did I do wrong? Why didn’t they tell me they started dating someone? Why do they have to be so in my face about it? What does the other guy have that I don’t? These thoughts hurt me, the not knowing is so bad. I’m hoping that by taking this person out of the parts of my life that I can, I’ll start to feel better. These things just take time. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/1/dear-diary-january-5-2016/3/
Keianna
That I didn’t have the time to document every part of the holidays has really bothered me. I love it all: putting up decorations with my family, exchanging gifts, everything. But if I had to choose my favorite part, I think it has to be shopping.
I know, the meaning of Christmas isn’t receiving presents, and I’m very grateful for what I have, but shopping is so fun. More specifically, shopping the post-Christmas sales. Everything is so cheap, and special holiday-themed things have a very special place in my heart.
Much to my father’s dismay, the day after Christmas, the entire family piled into the car to hit the mall. I shopped the Lush sale, and spent time in some other shops, too. However, the icing on the (Christmas) cake was how well everyone got along. I think it’s going to be a great 2016. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/1/dear-diary-january-6-2016/3/
Simone
I spent New Year’s Eve alone, which I regret now, but in future years, likely will not, given that (I hope) I have at least 70 more New Year’s Eves left. I was babysitting, and the children, whom I’d hoped to celebrate a staged New Year’s with around 10 PM, had been put to bed right as I arrived at 8. I was also grounded, and the isolation I’ve experienced during my punishment fully sunk in in the moments leading up to the ball drop.
Friends harassed me to sneak out for a night of fun, but I’ve lived through far too many scoldings from my mother to even consider that option. The location of fun was a sophomore’s crowded basement. It was hot and sticky, and according to my friends, impossible to pee. So much so, one paid the jacked up fare for an Uber to go home and relieve herself. And still, I felt I’d missed out. How pathetic.
I cried a lot that night. 2015 was a good year for me in almost all aspects, but the end of it has, as evidenced by many of my recent diary entries, slightly broken me. I worried I wasn’t adequate: too dumb for college, too irresponsible for my parents, too ugly and messy to be loved, too hidden to ever express these feelings to those I needed to. It felt as if the world was insistent upon cramping my style.
I use the past tense because now 2015 ends with a six, and as we all know, that improves everything.
Of course, it doesn’t. But idealistic optimism isn’t useless. In the past three days, it’s motivated me to draw more, to learn more, to eat better, and get my work done with greater effort. These small accomplishments will likely all come to an end the second I begin feeling defeated by some hardship, or find an excuse to stop living to my full potential, but it’s lovely while it lasts. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/1/dear-diary-january-7-2016/3/
Cammy
I was really glad when break arrived, but I had so much work to do! My Black Studies professor gave us an assignment that’s so, so long—at least 10 hours of work. I also had a poetry assignment for my English class that I didn’t really know how to do. And a Chemistry lab, but at least that one was fun because it involved making crystals. 
Every time I have break I put my assignments off for too long and it always comes and bites me in the end. I want to be better with my time management, and space out my work so I don’t get overwhelmed during the last three days of break. I always prioritize having fun, but I can do that and still do some work. I think I procrastinate so that I can have fun without interruption, but the stress at the end of each break just isn’t worth it. I’m thinking, in future, I should be proactive and make a calendar and give myself some wiggle room to mess up. 
The Friday before school ended I had a debate. I wrote part of a speech for my teammate and I gave him 30 seconds of extra time because he only had two minutes to speak. He ended up delivering the speech in exactly two minutes, and I’m really proud of that. It tells me that I’m capable of doing this kind of stuff, like, it’s possible for me to figure things out and then execute them in the time allocated. If I can pull that off, then there’s hope for how I organize myself in the future, and I really like self-improvement. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/1/dear-diary-january-8-2016/3/
Alyson
I walk like my eyes are cameras. When I go on walks, I am actually filming. A dialogue runs across the bottom of the screen, nearly unreadable. It’s kind of like the sidewalk—where does it start and where does it stop? Speaking of the sidewalk, it’s a great thing to film with your eyes when you are walking. I sometimes try to film with devices, but their eyes are never as good as mine. A good, moving sidewalk is especially hard to translate with cameras, at least the way I see them. I feel good about my unique perspective, but hardly feels like a consolation prize if you can’t show anybody else your eye-film. 
People act as though they are in movies, which I am prone to participating in here and there. However, I am usually filming the scene. Someone has to do it! So it’s a good thing that it comes naturally. It starts without my cue and ends without my knowing. Then, because I don’t know yet how to show you, I sit on my floor and tell you about it. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/1/dear-diary-january-12-2016/3/
Lilly
The other night, I dreamed that someone found my journal and showed it to everyone. Suddenly I was ringed with questioning eyes and razor blades for words, stinging like when you nick your shin in the shower. I didn’t know what they were talking about—for some reason I could barely remember what I had written. What I do remember now is tearing it out of someone’s hands and ripping out pages as fast as I could, crumpling them in my fist like destroying my words meant they had never existed at all.
I woke up sweating, the heat of my skin an odd contrast to the biting chill of the air in my room. I’m on the west wall, so my room basically acts as a buffer—it soaks up all the cold before it reaches the rest of the house. I spend most of my time in there anyway, wrapped up in blankets, all the lights on and my space heater humming away, trying to overcome the frost forming on my windows. I like winter, but sometimes I think it doesn’t like me.
I’ve been locking myself away because I’ve been trying to write, but since that dream nothing has been coming. I’ll sit in front of a blank page or a cursor blinking cruelly from an empty Word document and wait for something to click in my head. Even these short paragraphs took hours, as if the cold is slowing down my brain.
I know it’s just a slump and it’ll pass. But I wish it weren’t so cold. I wish I weren’t so numb. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/1/dear-diary-january-13-2016/3/
Simone
I will admit it. It was because of The Perks of Being a Wallflower. I shouldn’t feel guilty about loving something so honest, and endearing, and important, but I do. That’s besides the point.
I was 13 years old and seeing the film adaptation of my favorite book, one I’d highlighted, and spilled coffee on, and lent to three friends, and slept with, and cried with, and loved so dearly. I’d been awaiting the release of the film for months, and had my mom drive me all the way to the chaotic supernova that was Garden State Plaza so I could see the film with my friends in its first weekend of limited release.
The movie was solid. My love for Logan Lerman was undying, and even if Emma Watson couldn’t do an American accent, she was still Emma Watson. And then there was the song.
The tunnel song isn’t specified in the novel, but I knew that logically, it’d have to play in the film, which was written and directed by Stephen Chbosky, who wrote the book. I’d avoided the soundtrack listings for the film, and limited my own guesses, because when I heard the tunnel song, it had to be new, untainted by memories or feelings I’d attached to it before. The tunnel song—a symbol of youth, and joy, and memory.
It was David Bowie’s “Heroes.” My mother raised me on “Modern Love,” and “Fame,” and “Changes,” but I’d never heard “Heroes.” I was stunned. I’d never experienced nostalgia, and happiness, and sadness, and longing, and angst, the way I experienced these feelings when I first heard this song, as Charlie stood up on the back of the truck and they drove through the tunnel. And the car left the tunnel, and the credits rolled like the tears down my face. Completely sober, I left the theater and called the boy I liked, my mom, and probably my grandmother, too. I told everyone I loved them, and how important they were to me, and that they made me a better person. A song had never made me do that.
And so, forever, this song will be entrenched in my heart, evoking such great feeling. And, forever, I will remember David Bowie. I went home that evening and studied his discography, finding more songs that resonated with me, more songs that sounded beautiful, more songs that made me feel less alone, and nostalgic, and sad, and happy, and longing, and angst, all at the same time. And for that, I love Bowie. A strange man, witty, and innovative, and so extremely talented, but most importantly, genius. Bowie’s innovations are the reasons why Lady Gaga is Lady Gaga, Kanye West is Kanye West, and Kurt Cobain was Kurt Cobain.
Bowie’s legacy is one of greatness. I won’t forget him and I will miss him forever. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/1/dear-diary-january-14-2016/3/
Kiana
Days seem to stretch out too long for me. I have been trying to catch up with myself. I felt that I’d left myself behind trying to take care of, and cater to other people’s needs. I catch up by watching films that I really like, rather than pretending to like a certain film just because a friend recommended it. I like American Beauty, Inception, Clouds of Sils Maria, and other films that elicit mind-tripping confusion, which I feel brings me closer to, deeper into, to my brain. I also found out that keeping a weekly planner, which I call a conscious mapping of one’s weekly hassles, helps me keep track of where I am and where to go, or what to do next. 
In retrospect, I think that actively paying more attention to myself is a maneuver to prepare and calm myself before I turn 19 on the 15th. I hoped to buy myself my very first swimwear, but since I’m saving up to go back to college, and for a music festival that’s happening this March, I think I’m just gonna give myself a nice, un-messy, totally profesh-looking manicure. The color will be white—a vainglorious attempt to evoke purity. I am on the edge of teendom, but I never ever want to leave it, or lose it in me. I never want to lose my childhood. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/1/dear-diary-january-15-2016/3/
Alyson
I have a problem being an “average American” in an “average American family.” There are so many of them. I want to be at the center of everything that happens. Not in a the-world-revolves-around-me way, it’s just that the best view is at the center of it all. And, yes, being in the center increases my chances of being seen, too.
I want to be in every family. I want to witness the “extra” as it is conjoined with the “ordinary.” I want to see it waiting in the wings: putting a dent in—or smoothing one over—an ordinary unknown’s journey to success. Success in extraordinary terms. 
I want to collect rolls of mental footage like seashells, unpolished—of parks, malls, restaurants, schools, libraries, pharmacies. I want to know about the families that live in the tract houses below the freeway, in a dimension of their own. And I want to learn about the folks who live in a wooden abode atop the hill whose house is constant host to the skinny but attractive white cross deliberately standing next to it. I want to explore, not the families that occupy the grand-finale residencies at the end of the cul-de-sac, but every group of people in between. 
I want to know all this so that I can write you the best essays and stories, draw and paint scenes you can’t resist sliding back to, because you see a twinkle of yourself in them, average American. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/1/dear-diary-january-18-2016/3/
Simone
Finally ungrounded, not any more clear-headed, or productive, or healthy, or stable, or better than I was before. It’s upsetting. To make things more disappointing, my weekend didn’t start with the bang I’d intended. I’m scared to make bangs now. I know the consequences.
My compulsive desire to accept misery persists, and it is no good. Every awkward situation, every soul-crushing situation is just an opportunity to tell a story or make a joke. And I guess I have to advocate for my wellbeing more. With my parents, with boys, with my friends, with my teachers, with myself. I have to realize that being miserable is only interesting, or funny, or character-building in the past tense. Misery can not be the principle by which I live my life.
I cut my hair this weekend. The dead ends are gone and now I have an undercut. I feel the healthy curls and the buzzed nape of my neck. It feels new. It feels a little bit like change. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/1/dear-diary-january-19-2016/3/
Alyson
The first time I was sliced unexpectedly was by a tuna can. I had done the tuna can routine seamlessly before, I’d never been cut by the tuna can. So it was shocking when it finally happened. I had always thought, in the back of my mind, that the tuna cans wouldn’t really cut me, even though it’s common knowledge that anything with a sharp rim has that ability. Is it my fault? A tuna can can’t help what it is. 
When it first happens, you feel something, but notice how odd it is that you don’t continue to feel the slicing pain—what is this magically slow and confused state of being? Seconds later, the sting comes with the blood, both of which were hiding within one of the various caves inside your body. It hurts, but you feel the warmth return to your head, because you aren’t confused anymore. You got sliced. That is all.
It wasn’t a tuna can, and my breath was taken away from me by the volume of the pain. The cut was of the deep variety even though you couldn’t see it, accompanied by a sting that went all out, just for special occasions like this one.
I stumbled the rest of the way to the car but instead of trying to tend to my wound, I was focused on appearing not to be hurt. I know how to be hurt on the inside, but still don’t know how to be hurt on the outside. 
Getting in the car will feel better, but the blade climbs into the backseat. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/1/dear-diary-january-20-2016/3/
Keianna
All feelings are fleeting. I wish I would have been told that when I was smaller. I wish the idea of happiness was presented to me just as all other feelings were. Instead I, along with my peers, was taught that happiness is an internal warm that couldn’t be shut off once achieved. We were taught that tears were a sign of weakness. We were taught that you don’t deserve to be taken seriously if you show emotion.
It’s obvious that this was something instilled in our parents, and the generations before them. They think it’s OK to scold children for showing emotions other than happiness. I wish they were understanding enough to let someone explain to them that children who don’t know how to show emotion turn into adults who don’t know how to show emotion. This is harmful in so many ways. The first being that if we feel anything other than that internal warmth we think we are broken. The second, that we see peers who do show emotion or speak out against wrongdoing as weak, which leads to victim blaming. Also, people who are going through something are afraid to get help because they don’t want to be perceived as bad or broken.
I wish I would have been taught that happiness is not a realistic life goal but just another feeling. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/1/dear-diary-january-21-2016/3/
Ananda
I am a beautiful, crazy mess of a person. And you, you are a dream, a dream come true and I am afraid I’m gonna wake up. You are the stars and the flicker of a flame, the waves of the sea, and the feeling of kissing you that I do not yet know.
When I hear the word beautiful I do not think of you, because that would not be fair on you—you are far more than beautiful. Your being transcends what I thought was possible. For a single person to have so much heart and kindness is something to be admired, and something to be feared.
I know perfection doesn’t exist, but you are as close as we can get to it. Your laugh is what gives angels their wings. And while I’m afraid of falling because I always get broken, this time, falling is flying and breaking is you fixing me. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/1/dear-diary-january-22-2016/3/
Kiana
Five things:
1. I can’t believe I’m 19. Even now, several days after my birthday, it’s weird to say the words out loud, much like the unfamiliar feel of my tongue moving inside my mouth when I say “19” silently.
2. On the morning of January 15, I braved my heart and set forth to lounge for half a day on a distant, secluded island. I drank orange juice, rolled around in the sand under the sun, and read poems. Now I realize I didn’t speak much that day, and I love that.
3. I have a new journal notebook! I bought colored pens, peach and blue—I felt that these would encourage me to color, draw, and journal more. But who am I kidding? My need for catharsis and release is the only ingredient necessary for riotous, tireless journaling. That and the fact that Sylvia Plath and Anaïs Nin come to mind when I think, even momentarily, about journaling.
4. A boy I was in love with for quite some time (but then magically got over) hit me up last week to ask if I could help direct his band’s music video. Boy, was I stirred and confused. I knew what he was doing: taking advantage of the fact that I was in love with him.
5. I don’t know what this age or number holds for me, or what the universe has in store for me, or what things I’ll bring upon myself—I’m scared, now more than ever. As I try to stay centered and focused, I hold my own hand and listen to myself breathe and watch myself survive.
P.S. Do any of you 19-year-olds have advice or words of reassurance for me? EEEEEEK. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/1/dear-diary-january-25-2016/3/
Keianna
When did I become just another number? When did test scores and class ranking start to define who I am? 
I was in battle with my mind during all of my final exams. Sometimes, with a song that just wouldn’t get out of my head as I tried to focus on the VERY important task at hand. Other times, it was trying to stop the intrusive thoughts that screamed horrible things in my head. During my math final, I couldn’t figure out something very simple and my brain decided to remind me that these are the grades colleges look at. I started panicking about not getting into any college at all, which caused me to have to take a break to prevent myself from crying. Which caused me to have less time to finished the test. Which made me panic more.
Finals week has pushed me to the absolute limit. I am not a test score, and from now on I’m not going to treat myself like one. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/1/dear-diary-january-26-2016/3/
Fatma
I am not the coolest girl in school. I do not fit the standard of perfection that every “cool” girl follows. My hair is not long and straight, it is short and naturally curly. I wear glasses, I do not wear makeup to school, and in gym, I roll up my trousers which I wear with sports socks, rather than wearing a skirt. But I would never sacrifice any of this to become a cool girl. As I stroll into school, wearing my black bomber jacket, I think of Andie, from Pretty in Pink. People want her to change, but she’s not going to. 
My dilemma is that I don’t feel as though people who look like me are well-represented in the media. I would love to see a Turkish girl who was born in Britain, who wears glasses, and listens to Aaliyah on TV. But TV for teenagers is actually made by 30-year-olds imitating teenage life. On TV, “smart people” are ascribed a certain look that is funny to viewers—big glasses, messy hair. This really annoys me because I ACTUALLY LOOK LIKE THAT IN REAL LIFE. Thinking of how the only people on TV with glasses are represented as weirdly intelligent, or simply as a before picture of a person who now wears contacts, makes me feel depressed. 
I guess those shows are what’s profitable, and I guess that’s what people making TV think about—money. If you have the money, you can buy what you want. You can do what you want. And all the people who don’t have money should go crawl up in the corner and die. That’s the extreme, but overall, isn’t that the message?
Although I can distinguish what’s real and what’s fake, sometimes, it feels like I hardly ever see a true representation of teenagers. How am I supposed to survive without anything that represents me well? Sometimes, when you’re a teenager with low self-confidence, who is as a minority, you just want one thing in your life to be true, for once. It makes me feel extremely emotional that this will probably never happen for people who look like me.
What I see constantly on TV and on the internet is misrepresentation. If someone has glasses they are seen as a loser or uncool. If someone is shy, they are an outcast or a weirdo. And when I realise that I possess these so-called negative traits, I feel lower than everyone else.
I’m finding it hard to accept myself at the moment. I guess it’s annoying when you’re treated badly at school and constantly annoyed at home. So it’s not like i’m perfect, or anything. Plus, what would these people know. They’ve probably never worn glasses in their lives. I guess they’ll never know how cool they can really be.
My mantra for dealing with this is: Do not believe what the TV says. Wearing glasses is solely down to having bad eyesight, you’re as cool as everyone else. Being shy is solely down to feeling uncomfortable, it will end once you are comfortable with your surroundings. I am still dealing with this, so “we’re all in this together,” as Troy Bolton sings. You’re as cool as anyone else. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/1/dear-diary-january-27-2016/3/
Ananda
I am happy, for the first time in a long time.
I turned 18 on Sunday, and it made me realize how much has changed within the last year. I left the hell hole that was my school and started college, where I met some amazing people and made wonderful friends who will hopefully stay with me for a lifetime. I also stopped therapy and my mental health has improved dramatically; medication and the people I’ve surrounded myself with have truly helped with that. I’ve come out as both pansexual and as a demigirl to my friends and family, and in the process met and made a wonderful community of queer grrrls online and in real life. Everyone I’ve met has accepted me, which in turn, allowed me to accept myself. I can now say that I am proud of myself and my improvement without feeling guilty about it. Instead of looking at the year ahead with fear and dread, as I have done for the past few years, I can look ahead with excitement and wonder. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/1/dear-diary-january-28-2016/3/
Thahabu
My roommate moved out to live in her sorority house. She’s a sweet and funny girl, but I’ll appreciate the extra space until my new roommate moves in.
I was apprehensive about coming back to school this semester to tough it out before I transfer schools in the fall. I enjoyed being at home over break because I spent so much time with my friends. Plus, compared to the atmosphere at my university, my town could be considered hippyish. I’m really gonna try to make the best of this new semester, especially since I’ll be seeing a mental health counselor once a week until I transfer. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2016/1/dear-diary-january-29-2016/3/
Lilly
My journal is full of lists. They are mostly mundane: Books to Read Before College and Real Resolutions and Quotes to Remember. Others act as resources, like Simple Self-Care for When You Don’t Feel Like Caring. Dreams contains only one entry, since I don’t remember mine often. I even have a space for day-to-day journaling in list form, optimistically titled Nice Things That Happened Today.
I’m trying to maintain some consistency. It’s more engaging than an empty white computer screen (and more available when I don’t feel like being blinded at one in the morning), and it’s unexpectedly easy to fill up a page or two. I’m also trying to be honest, which scares me sometimes; my handwriting gets messier as I go along, like I’m subconsciously trying to encode my thoughts. But that hasn’t stopped me yet, and I won’t let it stop me from doing this: Here’s one I wrote the other night, late enough that I’m surprised it’s coherent at all. It’s called Questions I’d Ask God.

Why?
Even if we some day know exactly how we got here, why all of that? What caused it? Who wrote the script?
Who wrote the code? Was it you?
What is outside of us?
Are we alone?
We cannot be alone.
The universe requires such specific order to exist. It’s the biggest lottery spanning all spaces, and all times, and all nothings that we can’t even perceive. So how did this happen? Why were we the winning ticket?
Were we the winning ticket or the short straw?
How did we evolve so individually? Why do I have the presence of mind to be thinking about this?
What question do I need answered the most, and what is its answer?
Have these questions all been asked before?
Of course they have. Don’t answer that.
Who am I?
Who are you?
Why?
We cannot be alone.
We cannot be alone.
We cannot be alone. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/12/dear-diary-december-1-2015/3/
Keianna
I’m completely and utterly tired of people who refuse to accept that they have privilege. I cannot, for the life of me, understand why it is so hard to understand that if you have an advantage that you didn’t have to earn, that was just given to you at birth, you have privilege. I know the first thing that most people think when they hear the word privilege is white privilege https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/White_privilege. While this is a prime example of privilege, it is not the only one. If you type “definition of privilege” into Google here’s what shows up: 

Priv•i•lege (Noun)
A special right, advantage, or immunity granted or available only to a particular person or group of people.

Researching topics for yourself shows that you actually care, plus you get a lot of different ideas and explanations that might lay things out in a way that you understand best. I reached out to some people on Instagram to help me compile a list of terms and phrases we have searched in order to gain a deeper understanding of the experiences of people around us.

Privilege
How many genders are there?
How many sexualities are there?
Reverse racism (why it isn’t real)
Intersectional feminism
Cultural appropriation
Tone policing
Transphobia
Dead name
Islamophobia
Nonbinary
LGBTQIA+ (or, SAGA)
Ableism
Colorism
Classism
Cissexism
Fetishism
Sexism
Love
I like to think that if everyone knew and understood these terms the world would be a much more understanding and peaceful place. I’m so glad there are safe spaces online where people can talk freely about what they believe and who they are. 
Thank you so much to @feminism.is.cool on Instagram, and everyone else who helped make this list. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/12/dear-diary-december-2-2015/3/
Kiana
Shall I postpone my acceptation and realization and scream at my eyes,
That they turn from gazing after and down the road,
And forthwith cipher and show me to a cent,
Exactly the contents of one and exactly the contents of two,
and which is ahead?
[…]
They come to me days and nights and go from me again,
But they are not the Me myself.
Apart from the pulling and hauling stands what I am,
Stands amused, complacent, compassionating, idle, unitary…”
—From Walt Whitman’s, “Song of Myself.”
Don’t wage a war inside your head. There’s too much violence, you don’t need more taking place inside your body. You have to stop this destructive behavior if you still want to keep breathing tomorrow, next week, next month, next year, and the next. Remember your dreams.
You will be fine. Hold on to that no matter how much you question its certainty and believe in its uncertainty. Please hold on to that.
There are rituals that can help you wrap your head around loneliness. Small, unnoticed rituals: binge-watching Friends while drinking hot chocolate in bed; scribbling the hell out of your mind in your journal; writing down what you feel in the most honest and vulnerable way and then tearing the pages apart afterwards. You can burn them, too, if you will, and throw the ashes away.
You can get past this. You’re going to be fine; I promise you that. We will hold each other’s hands and we will fight brave and hard to uphold that promise—to make it real. But for now, look around. The sun is shining, there is enough light, you have a glass of water in your hands, and you are breathing. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/12/dear-diary-december-3-2015/3/
Cammy
Break kinda slipped away from me, and now I’m stressing about cramming a week-long project into eight hours. I procrastinated a lot but I don’t really feel bad about it. It’s not cool to bank on how good my results usually are when I work under stress, but I heard someone say “pressure makes diamonds” recently and I can’t help but notice how true that is for me. Especially in English class, which is what this project is for. I mean, I completed my first essay for this class in two or three days and got one of the highest scores. I did a big-ish art project the period before it was due and got a perfect score. I did the analysis for a big group project in one night, which my teacher strongly advised us not to do, and my group got the second-highest score in class.
Now and then, I think back to this weekly ADHD course I attended—I was diagnosed in the beginning of the summer, and the course helped me learn how to manage it and be as functional as possible. The doctor-teacher asked if we procrastinate when doing work, and we all answered yes. Then he asked if our grades reflect that. Me and another kid said no. We said that the stress compels us to do our work, and that even though it’s last minute, we still get good scores in school. The doctor said that it wasn’t good, and that we shouldn’t rely on that. And I can see why. Sometimes, I worry that the rushed work that I do isn’t good enough. Especially in English, since my teacher thinks highly of me. Rushing tacks on stress and procrastination brings in one of the most tedious things for me: waiting. But I always do well on the things that count. Even though this approach might be bad, it works for me, and I’m cool with that. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/12/dear-diary-december-4-2015/3/
Ananda
On Tuesday, I left my house at 5 PM and made my way to Liberty’s, London. I was simultaneously nervous and excited, probably my most common mix of emotions. I got off the train relying on Google maps to tell me where I was headed. Once I arrived, I walked around the store and saw seven girls huddled together outside. I approached them and was met with hugs and smiles: It was the wonderful London Rookie girls, Naomi Morris, Caitlin Hazell, Rachel Hodgson, Eleanor Hardwick, Maria Ines Gul, and Ione Gamble! This was my first time meeting them, and everyone was so lovely. After five minutes, we saw a familiar figure walking toward us. It was TAVI GEVINSON! She hugged us all and introduced us to her dad.
Together, we wandered around London. We bumped into some Rookie readers who recognized Tavi, who introduced us. Once we’d said goodbye to Tavi’s father, we made our way to a pub for drinks and chips, and then to a pizza restaurant where we shared four pizzas. Once we were done, we wandered over to Big Ben for photos, and then on to Trafalgar Square where Caitlin and Naomi climbed the lions.
We all walked to another restaurant, and that’s where Caitlin, Naomi, and I headed off to catch the train. At the station, Caitlin had already crossed the ticket barriers when she realized I was going in a different direction than her and Naomi. So she crawled back under the barrier, making me laugh hysterically, along with the underground staff who, lucky for us, were in a good mood! I hugged the girls goodbye and made my way home.
Although, quite honestly, I felt anxious about meeting new people, and being the youngest of the group, it was a lovely evening. I feel so glad to have met some of the wonders of Rookie. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/12/dear-diary-december-7-2015/3/
Ananda
We rush through life without taking a breath. Going faster than we can see, faster than we can think, oblivious to the world around us. We love and we lose and the people around us do the same, over and over again. We laugh and we cry and we give ourselves wholeheartedly to some and halfheartedly to others, hoping that one day we will be whole again. Those we love, we call our own in an attempt to find ourselves and to maybe find them, too. 
We make wishes on stars and birthday candles, on eyelashes and on the road to midnight. We cross our fingers, close our eyes, and touch wood. All in hopes of something, something good, something better. And while sometimes stardust is light years away and birthdays come once a year, a cross never helped anyone, and a table is just a table—sometimes our wishes come true. And it’s that glimmer of hope that gets us through our days, and our nights, and our nightmares. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/12/dear-diary-december-8-2015/3/
Keianna
I think it’s pretty odd how quickly I can give myself a schedule. I like to justify it by explaining that I’m a Taurus, that’s just what we do. But in the past week I noticed just how easy it is for me to slip into a game plan mentality when it comes to sorting out my day. On Saturday, I was on what I’ll call “no school schedule.” I had a great time looking around The Museum of Contemporary Art and even picked up some really cool stuff at the gift shop before going to dinner with my grandma. Note: Not every “no school day” is exactly like this, but I usually do something I enjoy.
I think I’ll call Sunday “oh my gosh I’m starting to feel a bit sick but I’ll just sleep all day and hope it goes away schedule.” I slept all day. 
After Monday, when I went to the emergency room and they told me I had a sinus infection, I was on my became “I feel like crap schedule.” The day usually started with me waking up whenever and watching whatever was on TV (usually Judge Judy) before taking my medication and alternating between sleeping and watching more Judge Judy.
Between 11 PM and 4 AM the pain got pretty bad. I complained to my grandma through a pain induced haze until she gave me a pain pill. I’m feeling better now and by Monday I should be back on “School Schedule.” I hate to say I kinda missed it. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/12/dear-diary-december-9-2015/3/
Alyson
I was looking through old pictures I found in my dresser drawer last night. I was cleaning. They captured my middle-school life.
Sixth grade: Me and Mr. P at Bulldog Luncheon (something a student got invited to if they were a standout *flips ponytail*). My hate for my looks was just beginning to brew at that point. But my first reaction to looking at that picture was that I was pretty. This picture—I remember seeing only stomach and chubby cheeks years ago—looked good to me.
Seventh grade: Me and friends at my birthday dinner. I liked the picture when it first developed because I thought that my legs looked OK, never good, but good enough. Did I even eat that night? That was when I wasn’t eating, but I think maybe I did, because we had so much fun roasting fries in the small candles atop our table. It’s things like that that get whisked away like leaves when your head is a tornado, concentrating on whether or not you looked “OK” in the night’s single photo.
Eighth grade: Graduation. In what I saw, I looked beautiful. I don’t know if I have ever thought that of myself before. But I felt that about those pictures of me hugging my friends, and the teachers who made that year better for me. On the day, I thought I looked so…bad.
It’s so (not) funny how much I put myself through to look that way and I never even got the chance to live knowing that I had achieved it. No, my thighs were not disproportionately large, as I had always seen them. No, my nose was not cartoonish, but cute. No, my stomach didn’t look bloated in the clingy dress, despite how it felt after eating just a banana before the ceremony. I can see that now, but I couldn’t then.
I may have developed a new psychological condition: Feeling jealous of the self you were years ago. Am I still this pretty? I know I am not as skinny, but do I still look good? OK, at least? I wished to be that self again, after all, when you are gorgeous, what problems can you have? The warmth of self-acceptance—of my former self—froze over as I understood my scary indifference to my own struggle. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/12/dear-diary-december-10-2015/3/
Thahabu
I’m pretty sure my roommate got me sick—well, kind of. I felt it coming on and immediately started drinking tea all day so it wouldn’t progress. I’m a bit angry about it, but we live in small space together so it was inevitable and it hasn’t progressed beyond a little throat discomfort. That being said, roommate problems are the least of my worries right now. 
I’m tired of my school and I have decided to begin the application process so that I can transfer next fall. Freshman year was a disappointment, but instead of leaving I told myself I should give it another chance. Nothing has changed. The way I see it, if I graduate from here I won’t be able to say I was happy, in fact my experience will have been the exact opposite; I’d have to say it left me emotionally stunted. Political discourse in class doesn’t extend beyond Tumblr posts and conservative news coverage. I can’t get through a lesson without a professor quoting the Bible, or being told that there are “two sides to every story” when discussing oppression. No one admits that there are oppressor/oppressed relationships, nor that it’s the oppressor’s job to get its wild fuckshit together. I don’t come to class to hear a sermon, especially at a non-religious school. This wouldn’t be so hard if I had an outlet on campus where I could complain, but it seems as though the entire student body is apathetic. I don’t even care about changing people’s minds, but not having someone to bitch about it with is super frustrating. Plus, my school in the middle of nowhere so there’s nothing for me to do off campus. 
Even my black history class is riddled with respectability politics and “seeing it from both sides.” The majority of my class is white, so whenever we have conversations about black liberation other black students and I bring up our personal experiences of racism to provide context. The professor is a white-passing black man: He somehow manages to bring up the fact that he comes from “a long line of light-skinned blacks” in every class. This wouldn’t bother me except every time I bring up my experience as a black woman he immediately brings up his “both sides” narrative because he’s been mistaken for a white man before (WISH THAT WOULD HAPPEN TO ME) and says we need to take both perspectives (let’s be real, his perspective) into account in order to dismantle racism. 
I interpret this as a silencing tactic. He acts as if his point of view is superior due to his experience as a white-passing African-American, while my point becomes invalid because I “only” know what it’s like to be black. Apparently, the only reason I’m angry is because my “limited” perspective skews my view, and the real solution to oppression is just more mixed babies or racially ambiguous Black people who know what it’s like to see life from both perspectives. I don’t even get that reasoning. His whole solution is based on this fake kumbaya colorist “if only we could only see it from my white-passing point of view the whole world be a better place” idea. I find his position very violent and dismissive to black people who don’t pass for white, and it’s pissing me off that I can’t say that because he, and the rest of my school, won’t understand.
On top of that, one of my other professors is making us write an essay on why the Mizzou students were “wrong” for not letting the media into one of their protests because it violated the first amendment blah blah blah. He wants us to compare the events to All the President’s Men, a movie about two journalists trying to uncover President Nixon’s Watergate scandal. How is what the Mizzou students did similar to the Watergate scandal? I don’t know. Before setting the assignment, he called the protesting students whiny and stupid, while another girl started yelling that they were “just like ISIS.” She claimed that not letting the media in rendered the students “closed-minded and extreme,” and those traits are what create terrorist groups like ISIS. 
I laughed at her ignorance, but in reality it was all very offensive and hurtful. Putting black people, who want equal treatment at their school, in the same group as terrorists is so dangerous. I wanted to yell at him and the whole classroom like the girl had. I wanted to tell them how it felt to receive a biased and inappropriate assignment. But even if I’d done so in a kind manner, they would’ve said I was being overly sensitive or extreme. If I’d yelled like the girl in my class had, I’d become the “annoying, angry black girl” in the room. I stayed quiet. In order to get around having to write something I don’t believe, I’m going to write about why I disagree with the the professor’s point of view, and how the Mizzou protests have nothing to do with All the President’s Men.
In my search for other colleges with solid communication programs, I found a place that I believe to be the school of my dreams. The campus is more art-oriented, and much more social justice friendly. I’m not looking to start some revolution but I do want a space where I can safely vent about the woes of misogynoir, without being viewed as some radical black extremist. Contrary to what my classmates may believe, I don’t spend my whole day preaching about misogynoir and capitalism. I have a regular life: I do things like eat pizza and watch trashy TV with my friends. The people here don’t get that, if I call one thing sexist I become the extreme angry feminist on campus. I don’t deserve that, I deserve a campus where I feel safe and comfortable, not weird and ostracized. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/12/dear-diary-december-11-2015/3/
Cammy
Something really terrible has happened. One of the kids in my grade was involved in an accident and he died. It’s so so strange that he’s dead. I would pass him in the halls, and at the beginning of high school he and I were more familiar. It happened at a lake where a lot of my friends hang out. It’s unbelievable that something like that could just happen. 
I feel very weird about my feelings though; I didn’t know him really but I’m shaken up like everyone else. It’s so upsetting, and I feel so bad for the people who witnessed the accident—it was at a birthday party. It must be so traumatizing to watch one of your friends die in a split-second. 
I want to go to the memorial site but that feels weird, too. I don’t want anyone to think I shouldn’t be there because I didn’t know him. It’s just that this has had a big impact on our community; school feels really dreary and it’s really upsetting to see how sad everyone is. Assignments and everything should be pushed back so that everyone involved, and the whole community, have the space to mourn. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/12/dear-diary-december-14-2015/3/
Keianna
My feelings are flying around so wildly that their wings are slapping me in the face. I’ve come to dread the taunting ring of my cellphone that emits only upset voices, angry comments, and the click that signals that I’ve been hung up on. 
Maybe he’s right, I’m too dramatic and I deserve everything I get. What she said makes sense, I’m selfish and can’t be trusted. Yet, I know that’s not right, I’m sure that I’m not a bad person for wanting to know what’s going on with things that concern me. I’m sure my tears don’t make me any less brave. I’m sure I think of others, because most of the time it’s easier than thinking about myself. I’m sure that letting other people know that it’s OK to be sad is OK because there’s no point in acting like we don’t all feel like this at one point or another. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/12/dear-diary-december-15-2015/3/
Lilly
Something feels off the moment I walk into the building. My dad chats with the receptionist as I’m checked in, but I keep glancing over at my physical therapist in the back of the room, the same woman I saw for my hip injury last winter. Her eyes are fixed on my right foot. I’m hyper-aware of my stride as I pad towards her, my ankle stiffening inside my shoe, dreading the moment that she disregards the progress I’d thought I had seen and informs me she can already tell I’ll never recover in time for soccer season.
“Are you sure you had ankle surgery?” she says. Oh, well.
“Six weeks ago?” she exclaims. “But you’re walking so well! And you’re not even wearing a brace!”
I have no explanation. The first half of the session is testing my physical capabilities, measuring imbalances between my joints and the level of atrophy in my muscles. She doesn’t give much away, but I know her well enough to sense her quiet astonishment. “There are obviously some limits to your range of motion,” she says finally, “But nothing as bad as I had expected. Your muscle tone is coming back quickly.” She flips through a book to start assigning me exercises.
I feel a little silly, doing ankle curls with a resistance band as instructed. Forward, backward, right, left, my ankle flexing under a strain it hasn’t felt for months. But it doesn’t hurt. I know my therapist is pleased. “We’ll be able to start warming you up on the bike next time,” she says. That’s weeks earlier than my podiatrist predicted when she gave me the projected timeline of my recovery.
It hasn’t been easy, getting through the first semester of my senior year with this injury constantly hanging over my head. Every time I write I put on this cheery tone and talk about how things are finally looking up (!), and I can see the light at the end of the tunnel (!!), and how this is the only thing I’ve been able to think about for the past two months (!!!). This week I’ve mostly forgotten that it ever happened. Maybe next week I won’t have to write about it at all. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/12/dear-diary-december-16-2015/3/
Simone
“They don’t want you to be happy.”
In my personal opinion, that’s a horrible way to see the world, but of course, that all depends on whom “they” are. If “they” are every person on Earth, then no, they just don’t care about your happiness. If “they” are the government, or the CEOs of Fortune 500 companies, or the patriarchy, then yes, “they” don’t want you to be happy.
For DJ Khaled, “they” are his critics, opps, and the police officers who pull him over for speeding on his jetskis.
He has many ways to combat these enemies. He promotes his own happiness through self love. DJ Khaled argues that success suppresses negativity, and his keys to success are Alive! vitamins, bottled water, egg whites, and mani-pedis. He speaks of a pathway to success, lined with well-watered plants, and lion statuettes. There is an elevator to success as well.
One success is not enough for DJ Khaled. He emphasizes the importance of ANOTHER ONE. Once one goal is achieved, one obstacle conquered, there has to be, you guessed it, ANOTHER ONE.
I respect his philosophy. There’s no harm in self love, and motivation, and confidence. And what’s wrong with being grateful? I wish everyone was as grateful as DJ Khaled.
I can’t tell if this man is taking part in some major marketing ploy, or is doing a performance art piece, or just has a really good viral marketing team, but he is really helping me. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/12/dear-diary-december-18-2015/3/
I’m going through a creative block, maybe even a mental block. Whatever it is, it needs to go away! —Amil Barlow
Kiana
My friend Kim and I are hanging out at Starbucks, talking about various things but always coming back to the essential: The dreams we hold, what we look forward to, and what we could do with all the time that’s left for us. Read More »
[Editor’s Note: Steffany is taking a break from diaries but she’ll be back with us soon.]
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/12/dear-diary-december-21-2015/3/
Lilly
I turn in my final calculus exam 20 minutes early. I know that if I don’t, my anxiety will multiply as I feverishly double and triple and quadruple check my answers, and the last bell will feel like a curse instead of a blessing. As it is, I can slip it into the folder on my teacher’s desk, go back to my own, put my head down, and feel all of the tension slide out of my body because I’m done, I’m done, I’m done.
No sense of relief compares to the end of the first semester of a school year. And this time around, my senior year, it’s more than just the halfway point. It means the end of the college application process in favor of the college admissions process. It means a lighter course load and my last season of competitive soccer—maybe ever. It means that in almost exactly six months I’ll be walking across the stage at graduation and then I’ll be out of that building forever if I want to be.
I keep forgetting it’s the end. I’ll wake up at six in the morning tomorrow as usual, bleary-eyed, maybe even make it to the kitchen before I remember that I don’t have to submit myself to that torture anymore. But then I’ll go to the gym and plan sleepovers with friends and completely forget about school for two whole weeks and just bask in it. Right now all of my nights are young. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/12/dear-diary-december-22-2015/3/
Kiana
I came to the decision that I wanted to chop all my hair off, so I did. Now I’m donning a pixie cut which makes me feel like a giddy kid all the time. The past five days of my life have been filled with the question “why?” from peers and acquaintances, and my answer, “I’m better now for this, much happier, and unencumbered.” Whenever I defend my hairstyle, I remember DJ Khaled whispering his “They don’t want you to” gospels; in my case it’s “They don’t want you to get a haircut, and feel good about it.” 
Three or so days ago, I spoke up to a boy who rents a room in our house for being so loud that he ended waking me and my grandmother at 3 AM. To my surprise, I let out my string of words in a tremulous voice. I didn’t feel scared, I felt determined—to call someone out for their tactless, disrespectful behavior. I felt powerful, although I might have to practice steadying my voice.
I have always wanted to feel unencumbered. Lately, I’ve been doing things for myself, for my sanity, like speaking up in uncomfortable situations—albeit in a shaky voice—and fighting for what I believe. (See: Me constantly, cheerfully exclaiming to my friends, “Claim your space! Don’t shrink yourself!”) Where I’ll take myself in the long run, I don’t know. For now, these are my means to feeling unencumbered. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-2-2015/3/
Cammy
This weekend was so cool! I went with my friends Dionisia, her sisters Sienna and Olivia, and Suze, to the Rookie Yearbook Four signing in San Francisco and we had a great time.
We arrived late and stood in the back of the audience on some stools to watch Tavi while she read. However, we spent most of our time waiting in line to have our Yearbooks signed. That wasn’t really a bad thing at all, because we met so many cool people. There was also a table for us to color in this little Rookie flag and a sticker sheet. It was so strange when people came up to me asking, “Are you Cammy aka @campireweekend?” I was like, “OMG yeah!” thinking, wow, it’s so weird for people to know of me!
As we waited, we tried coming up with questions and topics to discuss with Tavi, but when we got up to the table I swear I forgot every word I ever knew—especially when Tavi saw the name on my Yearbook and asked if I was, “Cammy, the Rookie diarist?”
The whole night was truly a surreal and amazing experience; I felt like I could just burst at any moment and like nothing could ever measure up to what I experienced that night. On the way home, I was such a dreamy state—smiling and speechless. The things I did say didn’t make a shred of sense. I still feel so, so good.
What made this weekend the best, though, was Halloween. I went with Suze to a place in Berkeley that makes Halloween into a real event: The street is shut down and decorations are absolutely everywhere. We got some candy but we were focused on finding a party to go to afterwards. We were trying to meet up with our phoneless friend Chris. By luck, we found him AND he knew a party.
Mind you, I hadn’t ever been to a real party: It was so much fun! At first, Suze and I were a little reluctant because it was kinda far to travel, but once we arrived it there were so many people I knew, and an amazing band was playing (I’m sad that we didn’t get their name). The last party-type thing I went to was a pretty bad experience for me, but this great. Back at home, I fell asleep easily, which meant a lot because I haven’t been getting good sleep recently. It felt good to wake up refreshed. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-3-2015/3/
Kiana
She was like a drowning person, flailing, reaching for anything that might save her life. Her life was an urgent, desperate struggle to justify her life. […] Brod’s life was a slow realization that the world was not for her, and that for whatever reason, she would never be happy and honest at the same time. She felt as if she were brimming, always producing and hoarding more love inside her. But there was no release. Table, ivory, elephant charm, rainbow, onion, hairdo, mollusk, Shabbos, violence, cuticle, melodrama, ditch, honey, doily… None of it moved her. She addressed her world honestly, searching for something deserving of the volumes of love she knew she had within her, but to each she would have to say, I don’t love you. Bark-brown fence post: I don’t love you. Poem too long: I don’t love you. Lunch in a bowl: I don’t love you. Physics, the idea of you, the laws of you: I don’t love you. Nothing felt like anything more than what it actually was. Everything was just a thing, mired completely in its thingness. […] So she had to satisfy herself with the idea of love—loving the loving of things whose existence she didn’t care at all about. Love itself became the object of her love. She loved herself in love, she loved loving love, as love loves loving, and was able, in that way, to reconcile herself with a world that fell so short of what she would have hoped for. It was not the world that was the great and saving lie, but her willingness to make it beautiful and fair, to live a once-removed life, in a world once-removed from the one in which everyone else seemed to exist.
The quotation above is from Jonathan Safran Foer’s novel Everything Is Illuminated. I read these lines two weeks ago and I haven’t been able to move on from them since. During the past three days, I have read this particular quote, aloud, to my friends. It’s quite lengthy, but I persevered reading, in my best reading voice, using my best pronunciation and articulation. I read this to Chenely as we feasted on the burritos and a very greasy pizza that I’d insisted we buy. She nodded along as I went through the first few lines, and when I finished she said: “Wow.” Making quotation marks in the air with both hands, she repeated, “She felt as if she were brimming…but there was no release.” I nodded, and in that moment it was enough: we both felt it, we both understood.
I read this quote to three other people. Once inside a local cinema during a blackout. Our only source of light was from a reflector, which was not much, so I had to turn on my iPod flashlight and hold it up in the air as I sucked in breath after breath after breath—it was then that I realized this friggin’ quote is too long. And why have I cared so much about this for two weeks already? And, wait a minute, is my friend paying attention to what I’m reading? When I finished, I fell silent. We both did. I think we also looked at each other in the dark for a short while. That was enough: The message was sent and no more words were necessary—at least at that time. My other two readings were abruptly inserted into conversation, and followed by nods and deep silences.
I hope everyone remembers everything. I hope everyone treasures everything.
I hope my friends know that I’ve been reading this quote to them because I feel an emotional and spiritual connection with it; that I wanted them to know me, not all at once, but little by little, through this quote, and a single moment of bravery at a time. I want them to know that I trust them with this part of me. I want them to clutch this book-hauling, quote-reading, fake-poetry-voice-projecting me, in all its ugliness, and say, “I see you. I understand. I accept.” ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-4-2015/3/
Lilly
Showers are a little complicated. My dad went to the drugstore last week and came home with a wide range of what amounted to plastic bags shaped kind of like legs; I slide one on and seal it at the knee, above where my cast hits, and I can then fling myself bodily into the water without fear. Except for, you know, the whole standing thing, since I’m still one-footed until further notice.
Crutches are a little complicated. Our school gym is two blocks away from the main building—long, university campus-sized blocks—and although I’m excused from regular P.E., I’m often reduced to hobbling a quarter of a mile down the road and back for mandatory health seminars and the like. Pavement is killer to navigate, and I swear I’m getting calluses on my sides, but at least I’m getting a workout somehow.
School is a little complicated. Thankfully we have an elevator, so that takes a load off my back—sometimes literally, if I have friends tagging along to help me with my bags—but there is no decrease in the mental weight, especially as we round the corner of our first marking period. Early application deadlines for a lot of colleges passed this weekend, and I submitted my first few just days ago. If anything, it’s even more real now than it was when I was plowing through essay after essay. Now all there is to do is wait. I’ll be hearing back from schools by Christmas.
Some things…aren’t so complicated. As of this week, I’m 17 years old—that’s simple addition. My older brother is home for a few days and continues to be one of the coolest people I know—that’s practically a given. Even in the midst of all these exams and deadlines and post-op appointments, life goes on (would that be a theorem or an axiom?). I do have a calculus test in two days and—OK, yeah, that’s a little complicated. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-5-2015/3/
Making mistakes left and right. —Ella Carlander
Steffany
I have been actively trying to transfer to other schools. The last time I went through the college application process, I was knocked on my ass. I didn’t meet my own expectations and I had to bear the burden of not being the genius child I’d been made out to be. Dissatisfaction with yourself is even more crushing than disappointing others. Read More »
[Editor’s note: Marah is taking a break from diaries this week.]
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-6-2015/3/
The weather this week has been beyond amazing and taking naps outside feels like being hugged by sunshine, clouds, and cool breezes. —Ella Carlander
Simone
The leaves I tread upon represent my optimism, my excitement, and all that made me so nervously excited for the school year to begin in the last few weeks of summer, despite the approaching reintroduction of homework and having to time your pees as to not detract from your academic studies. 
In September, these leaves were green, still photosynthesizing on their respective trees. I was hopeful. They were hopeful. The score had not been set. We did not know what was coming. Read More »
[Editor’s note: Britney is taking a break from diaries this week.]
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-9-2015/3/
Simone
The only bad part about being grounded is waking up. Those first few moments of the new day, birds chirping outside, sun shining through a cracked window, the blissful ignorance of sleep coming to an end, in which you quickly rediscover your circumstances. In my case, why is my hair wet? Why do sodden towels surround me? Why am I not in my room? Where are my friends who were supposed to sleep over after the party? Why is my mom sitting across from me, staring me down with overwhelming disgust and steady rage? Oh yeah…hah.
For the sake of my own integrity, I won’t get into why exactly I am grounded for the next two and a half months, but I will say that the other parts of being grounded are not so bad. Isolation, separation, monotony, they all seem pretty sucky, at least objectively. And yes, being confined to your room forces you to think about all the things you leave your room to escape, but it also gives you time to read the books you’ve never had the time to, and watch the films that’ve been in your Netflix queue for months, and realize that thinking about the things you leave your room not to think about prompts you to asses your underlying feelings, and possibly, discover faults within yourself. 
Boy, did I discover a lot.
Thanks to the Annual New Jersey Teacher’s Convention and my teenage idiocy, I have spent the past four days reevaluating my life, as I will spend the next ten weeks. I have realized that I used the distraction of partying, and boys, and lying, and gossiping, to escape certain realities. For example, the reality of my academic work. The fact is, I am truly struggling to maintain motivation and to put in effort this year, and because of my slacking work ethic, my desire and ability to produce, educate myself, and be creative has declined. 
My laziness and carelessness have also led to poor choices, with worse outcomes. The deepest-rooted of my issues is the self-loathing. Oh, the self-loathing. For too long have I allowed my personal value be determined by my peers. When made to feel small, I acted accordingly. People took advantage of my weakness, and the vicious cycle repeated. But ultimately, to paraphrase something Freddie Highmore once said in a really pretentious film I watched when I was 12: I was born, and I will die, alone. And thus, who do I have to impress? Who determines who I am, and how I’m seen, and what I do? That’s right. Me, me, me, and only me. And me. And, also me. 
I’ve decided that somewhere inside of me, exists a Simone with the potential to have her shit together. I’ll spend some time looking for her. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-10-2015/3/
Kiana
Last Friday’s sunset was a beautiful one. I woke up from a long nap and was duly gifted with the sight of my city, gold and glowing, under the looming twilight sky. I immediately sought high ground in order to get a good look at the unfolding magic. It was the kind of magic that leaves you gaping, breathless, and teary-eyed. After taking photos of the sky, I texted my friend Kim and told her that I can’t believe I’m living and breathing inside this beautiful urban jungle. I have never been more in love with a place.
I have resolved, since I was 16, to record or archive days and memories similar to the aforementioned one: The glorious times. I remember Tavi speaking in an interview about archiving everything, and recall her using the word “hoarding.” We can put it that way, hoarding emotions and memories. For me, the moments I hold on to are an arsenal for survival. It may not be enough to sustain everyone, but there are days in my life what I hoard is the only thing in my possession. Then, hoarding allows me to take that next breath, next step, next, next, next.
Last night, I googled “signs and symptoms of depression.” Of the 11 symptoms listed on Web MD, I ticked eight. This worries me—knowing full well that I am not just “sad,” or “down,” or “PMS-ing.” More worries come knocking, for I am aware that I live in a place where mental illness is not talked about, or even taken into consideration when one says, “I’m not feeling well.” The only thing most people consider a mental illness is schizophrenia.
This scares me more than it worries me. I know what I have to do and the actions I need to take. There isn’t much energy left in me; every ounce is spent thinking, feeling, being anxious about things. And with the kind of people I live and am around with, I don’t know where to begin. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-11-2015/3/
Alyson
The first night of this church retreat, I was about to run into the woods and go paleo until Sunday afternoon, when the buses were going back down the mountain. I was, simply, depressed and cynical. I had been stationed on the Jesus train tracks waiting for Him to hit me like a Metrolink, but no such luck. Apparently, the Holy Savior Express had become a bit tired after plowing over everyone else, and decided that I could stand to wait. Sigh. 
Hoping that the previous night’s lack of spiritual activity would cause some stir within me tonight, I threw myself into mass, then adoration. Throughout adoration, an hour long period of straight-up worship and meditation, I was witness to His train running through the weak, human-constructed walls within my church peers. The line for confession multiplied and I was suddenly embarrassed not to have eye juice washing the second-day forest grime from my face. At some points I wondered if I was the devil. I mean, why else would the HSE have swiftly dodged me on the road to its next stop?
When we assembled into small groups after the ordeal, several of my friends were just bawling. What was up with them that caused this reaction? There were things on my mind, but nothing poking at me. WHY COULDN’T I HAVE POKING PROBLEMS, TOO? I soon thought about when I did have a need to run into confession, be prayed over, or be held in someone’s warm arms despite the cold that surrounded everything else…I did, at one time, have terribly pointy problems—I just didn’t have any of these people here to help me. 
Screw what our leader was talking about (probably calling some inanimate object “the enemy” again), I was on fire. Looking at the stage-altar, Why did you make me alone during those times? Why was I forced to go through those hell-simulators by myself? I knew what the other people here would say, “God was with you! Didn’t you know that?” But I didn’t. He wasn’t. I had to crawl out of the dark on my own hands and knees. And now I’m watching these kids enjoy fully-fledged rescue missions.
My hands became clouded in warmth. Perhaps provoked by what I was beginning to believe, I heard Him “speak” to me, at last, “I was there with you.” I knew it was Him, because it was only in that time that I genuinely believed what I had been telling myself that over and again. The resentment lifted; my eyes pricked with tears; my arms were warm. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-12-2015/3/
Steffany
More and more, on this campus and in the rest of the world, I’m aware of the perceptions people hold regarding who I am. For instance, any sign of passion, or my choosing not to be passive, immediately puts me in the Angry Black Woman category. It’s not that I’m actively seeking to defy this stereotype; that’s not my burden to bear. However, when those tropes are used to minimize my viewpoints or accomplishments, it becomes a problem. 
A friend, also a black woman, told me that she’s constantly downplaying herself and her feelings for fear of being seen as “too much.” Increasingly, I understand why my mom said that being at the intersection of blackness and womanhood means that people project their prejudices onto you. For so long, I internalized the prejudice: I didn’t laugh as loudly as I might, or state proudly that I’m beautiful. Although these are things I find to be true, black women aren’t allowed to be “arrogant.” But, at this point, I’m going to have the audacity to love myself. 
I spent the entire weekend dancing around with my squad of black girls and absorbing the value of being empowered by people who look like you and who share your experiences. We’re not exclusive to be “radical,” we’re exclusive for our own survival. Sometimes self-care means leaning on people who can understand your experience from a very personal viewpoint. It’s such a relief to know that it’s not all in my head: these girls have been through similar things, and it doesn’t stop just at the school, it’s life. 
Articulating my experience to people who don’t understand how frustrating it is to be underestimated or talked down to is very difficult in the context of my school. Mick Jenkins performed at my college, and his political message was constantly cut short by white audience members stage diving and harming others, or literally yelling over him. He asked for silence as he spit bars and anecdotes about police brutality and seeking truth, yet the crowd wouldn’t be quiet, not even for the show’s headliner. “Fuck the Police” was a rallying cry they got behind, until Mick said, “A young n**** got it bad because I’m brown.” The extent of their interaction with the police is being hounded for smoking weed in public, whereas my interaction with police could result in death or serious injury—plus sprinkled racial expletives for added effect. To be confronted with these things in your day-to-day life is a struggle. Not that this threat wasn’t apparent before, but I’ve gone from a predominantly black community and school system to a PWI (predominantly white institution).
Amidst all of this, I’ve engaged in activism off the internet: There’s been a fire lit under my ass. Having conversations and actively doing the work is important to me now more than ever. I can’t react and fight every racist microaggression or overt statement. No one wins from me calling someone out every chance I can get. Also, I have to conserve my mental energy. 
The redeeming factors in my week include hugging the musician Uniiqu3 and her telling me I smell good. Seeing a black woman behind the decks play some awesome fucking music, I danced my frustrations away. (I also saw Mick Jenkins up close, he’s way attractive!) 
Discussing all my feelings with my girls has me realizing, in a weird way, that college is preparing me for life beyond college. This is just the beginning of being undermined. I may never learn to get used to it, but it’s something I’ll have to live with. That just comes with the territory. As a reminder to self, I scribbled on a piece of paper: “No longer will I minimize myself to increase the comfort of others. I embody black excellence. Blackness and womanhood are an essential part of my being. I love myself and won’t let anyone dim my light. I am too brilliant for that.” I hope that someone reading this will embody that message, as I try to myself. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-13-2015/3/
Cammy
Here are two words that sum up last weekend: hard work. 
On Saturday, I went to school to work on a mural that my friends Dionisia and Grace have designed. They created a Mural Club at our school this year and I’m really proud of Dionisia. She’s really good at art so I’m happy that she made this space for her and other people to express themselves and make beatific art. 
The mural is a mosaic and one of the figures in the mural is a huge black goddess. She’s so so pretty. We had to work on finding tiles and then spread a weird concrete onto them. The lady helping us kept saying, “Spread it like cream cheese!” But…I don’t even like cream cheese?! Anyway, we were there for SEVEN hours, ww got so much work done, though. I was in charge of music and I think I did a really good job of making sure everyone liked the songs I played. 
On Sunday, I worked at a block party—an anti-gentrification, neighborhood cleanup event. My Black Studies professor offered volunteering here as an alternative to a midterm. My city has been dealing with a lot of gentrification, which pushes rents higher. This area is severely affected because its inhabitants have less money. In the past, those inhabitants had lower rent which accommodated their income level. Lately, richer (and usually white) people have been taking advantage of the neighbourhood’s lower rents. They renovate houses and stores, which pushes the property values higher. As it starts becoming a so-called “nice neighborhood,” the rents go up and people are evicted. 
I learned that, each month, there are over 1,000 evictions in my city. There’s been a spike in the number of people without homes, especially in this area. The event was meant to raise awareness, but the people behind it also regularly make food for, and donate clothes to, people who are homeless. Over the course of our six-hour shift, we did some gardening and some cooking. Having my friend Chris with me made the whole day better. Not that it was bad in the first place, just tiring. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-16-2015/3/
Lilly
A kid at my school broke his leg a while back and came in fresh from the summer with a bright red cast clamping his knee at an angle. For all the attention and the signatures and smiley faces and wishes of good fortune, I can’t imagine the resilience that must have taken. I know all too well now the utter dependence on crutches, the inability to carry your dishes to the kitchen, staring up at the showerhead from your makeshift seat and wondering if you’re flexible enough to wash your hair with one leg tucked in the dry zone. He was recovering for months. I don’t know if I could have done it.
The thing about this particular kind of recovery is that you don’t really have much of a choice. Sure, my doctor tells me all the don’t-try-this-at-home stories as she wraps up my ankle in cotton gauze and surgical tape, but short of taking a saw to the fiberglass construction on my leg—don’t try that at home, please—I’ve just had to wait it out. So I’ve done what I can. I’ve been stopped by people in the hall just to so they can ask how I got so fast on my crutches. I’ve developed a system for transferring plates from surface to surface to avoid timidly asking my mother to take them across the room to the sink for me. And with a few tweaks to my dad’s original shower-chair blueprints, I’ve been able to wash my hair as frequently and as painlessly as ever.
That other kid, he got his cast off a week or so ago. Mine is the last one left in the school. But not for long. After 25 days on crutches—my mom counted—I’ll be following him. Without the rhythmic thud between steps that has accompanied me everywhere since my surgery. I’ll be able to walk freely and carry whatever I want and soak my ankle plastic bag-free as much as I deem necessary. It’s going to be strange.
One too many jokes on my part about muscle atrophy and a friend has fondly nicknamed my underused limb “shrimp leg.” She says she can’t wait until I’m out of my cast so we can see how much muscle mass I have truly lost. And she’s about to get her wish.
Come on, shrimp leg! There’s a light at the end of the tunnel.
Time to get in gear. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-17-2015/3/
Alyson
This is the first cold week in Temecula. I put on some clothes and my shoes and stretched. The sun had set, but it wasn’t dark. Sky-limbo is when the sun is gone but the light isn’t. It was only 5:50 PM. Since it was cold, I could just run, without going through the annoying ritual of applying sunscreen and other stuff.
Honestly, I was pretty shaken up about what to do with him. All my friends feel bad for him. Don’t they think that I feel worse? I have put myself in this situation again, where I become the devil. Although these feelings make for a painful resting life, they give me adrenaline to run with.
I have to remind myself to breathe when I first exit my cul-de-sac. In the past, I wouldn’t breathe because I didn’t want anyone to hear me, but then, after a couple minutes, my chest couldn’t run anymore. 
Instead of doing the mile loop, I ran out of my neighborhood. I can’t drive yet; running is my driving. For the first time, I wanted cars to see me when I ran. I got out to the border of my subdivision. The car lights were like white dots on a black canvas. I wanted to be seen. Why?
I was running so fast that I could only think my mind was running for me. In my cross-country days, mind was running for me there, too, until it could no longer keep up. I didn’t got tired on this run until I got very close to my street. But that’s later.
Tracing the border of sidewalk that became a fast-moving, two-lane street just inches from me—this was perfect to feed whatever mental craving was taking me over. At the end of the street: Turn in here and disappear from the audience of cars? Or…
No. I turned and ran back.
Honk.
Please honk.
I dare you to.
It’s dark now but I know you can see me.
I get one weak honk on my way down to the light. Thank you.
The way back was a little uphill, but I didn’t feel it. Maybe it was easier because part of me was hiding in the dark, but it was strange how that night I relied on something I usually avoid while running—people—to carry me through. Maybe I just needed a night off, to fall dependent on the cars and their fueling attention. 
It only took a couple hours for me to get sore. My calves felt hungover. But my mind was ready to go again—anywhere but my room, my house, my school, this snow globe. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-18-2015/3/
Ananda
You’re low, you don’t think you’re good enough, strong enough, you think you’re too weak. You’re calling yourself a coward. 
This isn’t about manning up, and you’re not a coward at all. Right now, life is hard and school is tough and you just wanna skip ahead to the good bit. But things will get easier eventually. Look how well you’ve done so far, of course you’re not a coward. You’ve been going through so much shit and hardship, and whether that’s a mental illness, grief, identity issues, or abuse and neglect, you’ve been doing that mostly on your own. 
Some days are gonna be harder than others, some weeks are going to be harder than others, some months, even. But don’t doubt how wonderful and how capable you are. And don’t put yourself down. Your family and friends love you unconditionally, and while you’re worrying about disappointing them, they’re worrying about you. Just you, not your grades, not your future opportunities, but you, right now, your wellbeing and your happiness. 
You’re a beautiful individual, I know this and I don’t even know you. Believe in yourself and good things will follow. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-19-2015/3/
Keianna
I can’t help but wonder whether the memories I’m making in high school are ones I’ll look back on fondly. 
A couple of days ago a friend brought out a picture of me circa eighth grade with the intent of embarrassing me and, as much as I hate to admit it, it worked. I panicked because I had tried so hard to force that image of myself out of my mind but she just had to bring it back up again. I felt the panic fade away when she returned the picture to her wallet; I allowed myself to laugh along as we reminisced about funny stories from middle school. But, I couldn’t stop thinking about my past selves.
I remember being around six and imagining what I would look like when I was older. I pictured myself with the best grades, the coolest clothes, and the cutest boyfriend. I figured it would just happen effortlessly. Oh, little me, I wish I could go back in time and tell you how wrong you were. Actually, I wish I could go back and leave all my past selves little Post-It notes covered with encouragements. I’d leave them for the younger me to find tucked into the books I read during elementary school, or when I gazed up at the band posters that took over my bedroom walls up until freshman year. They’d read a little something like this:
Dear elementary-school me,
Don’t worry too much about moving around a lot. Your wish will come true and you’ll get to go to the same high school for all four years. Oh, and you can’t control everything, little girl, deal with it.
Dear middle-school me,
It’s going to be OK. You don’t have to change yourself for other people’s acceptance and it’s fine to eat lunch alone. Just explain to others how you feel, don’t hold it in. You’re going to make it through this.
P.S. Just, please, stay away from the eyeliner until high school. FAR AWAY.
Dear freshman and sophomore me,
It’s OK to not have everything figured out to the last detail. People will forget about your outfit (it wasn’t that bad), your embarrassing moments, and your falls. Don’t try to change your schedule so you’ll have friends in your classes; your grades will suffer.
***
I wouldn’t be the person I am today if it wasn’t for the things that happened when I was younger, and I’m trying to forgive and accept my past selves for being so cringeworthy. I know there are things I’m doing now that the future me is going to try to forget, so I’ll end with a note to her:
Dear future me,
You must look different now, but I hope your heart has stayed the same, and you’ve held on to the love of life you gained your junior year of high school. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-20-2015/3/
Steffany
As the semester draws to a close, I find myself confronted by a host of feelings I’d labeled “resolved.” Apparently, that wasn’t the case at all. These feelings aren’t resolved or insignificant, at all. Rather, they’ve been stuffed to the bottom of the hamper or dropped off to the babysitter. 
I’m coming down off a three-month high of self-actualization and self-love, more prepared to face the world than ever. But issues I thought I’d left behind when I decided to cross the stage and get my high-school diploma are bubbling to the surface and swallowing me whole—issues I’m tired of carrying around and talking about. I’m worry often about my dreams coming true, living up to my own potential, and getting to where I want to be in a timely manner. Except, as I’ve evolved and matured, so have these fears. 
Whereas before, I was afraid to put myself out there, a step integral to networking, I’ve gotten over that. I know how to work a room if need be. I’ve been capable of being social and the life of the party long enough to create lasting relationships that can lead to other opportunities. But, as the height of my dreams increases, I worry more about access to the rooms with the people in them who can help me advance. The impending doom of not fulfilling my dreams is more burdensome than ever, especially when I’m supposed to be engaged in my wonder years. When college started, I felt like I was doing something important and worthwhile, and that feeling allowed me to tuck those other feelings away, without them nagging at me. Now, as it’s time for me to go home for winter break, I realize that I haven’t done much of anything!
I’ve been trying like hell to find the right job or internship to build up my resume, and my roommate having access to internships and job opportunities that aren’t as easily afforded me doesn’t help how I feel. When you share similar dreams to someone else and you see them climbing the ranks because of their access, you’re left with little to hold on to. It’s a lot. It takes it’s toll. There’s no handbook or guide. A How To on a White House internship would be nice, but that doesn’t exist. 
I constantly talk about wanting the world for myself, because my parents raised me to strive for nothing less. If I wake up tomorrow and decide I want the Nobel Prize for Economics, than guess what? I will hold my head high and work toward it. But what is working toward it, anyway? 
People who don’t dare dream on as big a scale as others, people who don’t think anything is possible, hit you with how unachievable your goals are. Having to protect them is a price to pay, and can be exhausting. You have to possess a certain tenacity, because constant questioning or diminishing can be discouraging. Yet, I refuse to be discouraged. I have my mentors and my family behind me in a major way. I don’t think there’s anything I cannot do. I look in the mirror and in that mirror I see a leader, someone ready to take on the world in a positive way. People can’t fathom that someone can think so highly of themselves, but it’s not really that; I have good days and bad days in the self-love department. A bad twistout can send me on a downward spiral, especially if my crush catches me slipping! 
However, even on those low days, I never doubt my abilities. Ever. Ever. And you shouldn’t either. I own my strong suits, because they’re so few. One of them is being able to lead, being a great listener, being able to speak in front of people and sell them my ideas. You have to play to what you’re great at and cultivate the talents you feel you lack. I would list my shortcomings here, but I’ve been dwelling on them for far too long and I am taking a mental break from that. Go ahead and take your mental break, you deserve it. I have earned mine after years of being really hard on myself.
When I talk about attaining what I want for myself, I’m not necessarily talking Jordan Belfort proportions—it can be small scale. Like, I wanted the syllabus in my class changed. I led the charge, and my professor recently gave in, after months of me voicing my concerns. I talked to my classmates to see if my idea was the consensus, and to check whether they’d support me. The support part was iffy, but I’d realized there was at least a consensus among us that he wasn’t doing things in a way we liked. And, if I’m paying, I’m saying! In class, I had a conversation with the professor yet again, but after saying my part, I created a poll-style system for people to offer their input. Some of it verbal, most of it nodding, but it worked. People stood behind me! Although some were reluctant, perhaps fearful of being penalized for rocking the boat. Once they saw that wouldn’t happen, they were on board. That was a big win for me! In a sense, I put myself on the line in a major way, but it was something I felt was worth doing. It fueled me, so much so that I wasn’t upset when he took credit for the changes to his syllabus that I came up with, and which he’ll use for his class next semester. I was in a celebratory mood after that! 
I do party and have fun but I’m constantly thinking about what can be done to climb the ranks. I’m never content, which used to bother me, but now I think it’s innate. I thought that fire in my belly should be quelled because people like me weren’t innovators or natural business leaders. I was afraid of saying I was excellent at this or that. In my class about leadership, one of my professors looked around and said, “Not all of you will be leaders or change agents.” But I knew he was not talking about me: I had decided for myself what I was going to be long before I sat in that class. 
During admissions decision week, I cried on the phone with A, a longtime school friend, and he told me I’d be OK no matter what school I ended up at because I was a “shark.” When I thought my low grades disappointed my parents, my mom told me she didn’t have to worry about me because she knew, I’d “be alright!” Those words meant the world to me, then and now. I’m not sure which direction I’m going in, but I’m taking off sprinting toward something, anything. I’ll wither away and die otherwise! A little bit of black girl ingenuity can take you a long way, ask my girl Oprah. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-23-2015/3/
Simone
If I pass my driver’s test this Friday, it means the state of New Jersey deems me at least a satisfactory driver. It means I get my license.
If I get my license this Friday, it means that I can start asking my parents for the car.
If my parents let me have the car, it means they deem me at least a satisfactory driver, and that they trust me to return home with myself, and in the car, intact. 
If I return home with myself, and in the car intact, I will trust myself to drive my friends around. 
If I drive my friends around, and they willingly get into my car, it means they trust me with their own intactness. And their lives. 
If people trust you with their own intactness, and their lives, you are a good driver. 
If I can somehow be a good driver, I will consider myself a master of the road.
If I become a master of the road, then my options are limitless. No destination within the continental United States, or North America, and Central America, will be out of my reach. I can pick up ice cream or McDonald’s or sushi or Q-Tips whenever I want them. I can go to the beach in any season. I can drive West to the open country and hike, or steal a baby calf, or just stop on the side of the road and stare. I will have the means to properly dispose of a body. I will drive alongside grandmas, and soccer moms, and business people, and student drivers. And I will be their equal. I will have the authority to operate a two-ton vehicle. I will be free. 
But of course, this all depends the quality of my parallel parking skills. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-24-2015/3/
Thahabu
People ask me why I’m so private, “Why are you so guarded? You should open up more.” It’s because I never get the response I’m hoping for when I finally decide to confide in someone. They end up “complimenting” me on how brave and strong I am, but I hate when I tell people my problems and they reply, “You’re so strong you’re such a fighter.” I don’t want to be a fighter. I’d give anything to have never had those experiences. Being a fighter is fucking rough! As short and frail as I am I’ve never felt small. Everyone cracks jokes about my size but then wants me to do everything alone while also carrying their load, whether it’s emotional or physical. 
I do not want to be strong anymore. I spend 95 percent of my days wishing I could lay my burdens down in someone’s lap and just cry for the rest of my life. They like me when I’m strong but will they like me when I’m weak? When I grow tired of carrying them, and what seems like the rest of the world, on my shoulders, will they still love me? ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-25-2015/3/
Lilly
1. “Wǒ yào chī turkey,” my friend says, and tosses the ball to me.
I point at her, “Tā yào chī turkey,” and then at myself. “Wǒ yào chī mashed potatoes.” It’s the week before Thanksgiving break and we’re spending our lunch period in Chinese Club playing memory games. It’s clear where our minds are going.
“Tā yào chī turkey, tā yào chī mashed potatoes, and…” The game’s next victim looks around the room for inspiration, “Wǒ yào chī cranberries!”
Of the five of us, two of my friends speak the language, so the game is mainly us other three getting closer and closer to the correct pronunciations while they try to fool our memories on the English parts. At first, I’m apprehensive that I’ll mangle the four words I have to know, but I quickly put aside that particular bit of irrationality and focus on not being pelted with the ball when it’s my turn to speak. Later, I find myself quizzing my friends on pronouns and the difference between titles and honorifics and realize that what used to be fear has rapidly become an insatiable desire to understand.
2. One of my best friends asks me three times if I want to learn a dance to one of her favorite songs with her. As full of mixed feelings as I am (It would be fun! but you can’t dance! Yeah, but it would be hilarious!), my ankle makes the final call. “I can’t do any footwork while I’m still in the boot,” I remind her each time, and she groans and apologizes for forgetting. But maybe, I think, maybe after. A year ago I would’ve said “absolutely not” and left it at that.
3. Someone stays up late with me telling me stories about their family and I think to myself, I want to have stories for people to tell about me.
4. “Lilly, you’re covering my calc book,” says my friend, chuckling, trying to push my head off of her line of text.
I turn to look at her. “Wǒ yào chī bagel,” I say, and she laughs. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-27-2015/3/
Keianna
Sometimes on social media, I come across a single post that makes me want to reevaluate my entire life. Recently, I made my biggest online discovery since memes. Sitting in my grandma’s living room at 2 AM I decided to take a break from watching Masters of None on Netflix (Aziz Ansari—need I say more?) to check my Instagram feed. What I saw was life changing. “You are completely capable of changing your entire life.” I don’t remember what the actual picture was but I remember that the caption made me stop scrolling. I think it might have been how obvious it was—if I didn’t like something in my life why couldn’t I just change it? It was so simple, that I was a bit upset that I hadn’t realized it sooner. 
Nonetheless, I opened the notes app on my phone and got to work, it was easy enough to decide on what I wanted to start doing and how I was going to achieve it. I wanted to be awake early enough to not have to rush. Cool, setting my alarm to 5:45 AM and not hitting snooze seemed to do the trick. During class I seemed to always be pulling my phone out to check social media but turning my phone off during class and putting it in my backpack nipped that in the bud. I was so happy that I had made plans and where sticking to them, but there was one thing on my list that I was actively avoiding.
• Think about who’s a good friend to you and drop everyone who isn’t.
It didn’t seem to be that big of a deal when I typed it, but there it was, taunting me. When I sat down with a pencil and paper to write who I was sure were good friends, I got a decent sized list. However, I was shocked that the people I hung out with on a daily basis weren’t there. 
What if I had to drop them? The possibility that I would have to throw off the warm blanket that was my friend group and expose myself to the harsh winds of high school was terrifying.
After sleeping on it for a few days, I went to the friends with whom I had concerns. I kept my voice even and strong as I sat down and explained to them what was wrong. Some of the discussions were heated, some even ended with me having to say goodbye to people I’ve known for years. What really helped was sitting in silence and thinking about the best memories I had with the people who would no longer be in my life. It was hard, but necessary for me to live the life I want to, and cross off the last thing on my list. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-30-2015/3/
Lilly
In my dream I am running. I don’t feel like I have to stop. I might be sprinting on the asphalt at the end of my street or through some gravel alleyway or across a field of unkempt grass—I don’t know. It doesn’t make any difference to me. All I know is that I am running and there’s no pain and I won’t stop until I have to.
Yeah, my alarm says, you have to.
The air cast comes off, for good, in a few days. Beneath its clunky frame, the incisions have been reduced to clean pink lines in a stark V-shape across my ankle. Sometimes, when my parents aren’t home, I rip off the Velcro straps that secure the boot and walk gingerly across my room with nothing between the sole of my foot and the floor, pins and needles prickling up through my calf. I’m more than careful. It never hurts.
One of my friends’s favorite bands releases a new music video and within 12 hours of its release someone brings up the idea of recreating it for fun at our next sleepover. That quickly escalates into planning how we’ll shoot specific scenes and what props we’ll need to find and how we’ll recreate their high-fashion getup with cheap, lookalike costumes. When we go, we go all out, and we go together.
The title of the music video is “Run.” ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-2-2015/3/
Cammy
This weekend was so cool! I went with my friends Dionisia, her sisters Sienna and Olivia, and Suze, to the Rookie Yearbook Four signing in San Francisco and we had a great time.
We arrived late and stood in the back of the audience on some stools to watch Tavi while she read. However, we spent most of our time waiting in line to have our Yearbooks signed. That wasn’t really a bad thing at all, because we met so many cool people. There was also a table for us to color in this little Rookie flag and a sticker sheet. It was so strange when people came up to me asking, “Are you Cammy aka @campireweekend?” I was like, “OMG yeah!” thinking, wow, it’s so weird for people to know of me!
As we waited, we tried coming up with questions and topics to discuss with Tavi, but when we got up to the table I swear I forgot every word I ever knew—especially when Tavi saw the name on my Yearbook and asked if I was, “Cammy, the Rookie diarist?”
The whole night was truly a surreal and amazing experience; I felt like I could just burst at any moment and like nothing could ever measure up to what I experienced that night. On the way home, I was such a dreamy state—smiling and speechless. The things I did say didn’t make a shred of sense. I still feel so, so good.
What made this weekend the best, though, was Halloween. I went with Suze to a place in Berkeley that makes Halloween into a real event: The street is shut down and decorations are absolutely everywhere. We got some candy but we were focused on finding a party to go to afterwards. We were trying to meet up with our phoneless friend Chris. By luck, we found him AND he knew a party.
Mind you, I hadn’t ever been to a real party: It was so much fun! At first, Suze and I were a little reluctant because it was kinda far to travel, but once we arrived it there were so many people I knew, and an amazing band was playing (I’m sad that we didn’t get their name). The last party-type thing I went to was a pretty bad experience for me, but this great. Back at home, I fell asleep easily, which meant a lot because I haven’t been getting good sleep recently. It felt good to wake up refreshed. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-3-2015/3/
Kiana
She was like a drowning person, flailing, reaching for anything that might save her life. Her life was an urgent, desperate struggle to justify her life. […] Brod’s life was a slow realization that the world was not for her, and that for whatever reason, she would never be happy and honest at the same time. She felt as if she were brimming, always producing and hoarding more love inside her. But there was no release. Table, ivory, elephant charm, rainbow, onion, hairdo, mollusk, Shabbos, violence, cuticle, melodrama, ditch, honey, doily… None of it moved her. She addressed her world honestly, searching for something deserving of the volumes of love she knew she had within her, but to each she would have to say, I don’t love you. Bark-brown fence post: I don’t love you. Poem too long: I don’t love you. Lunch in a bowl: I don’t love you. Physics, the idea of you, the laws of you: I don’t love you. Nothing felt like anything more than what it actually was. Everything was just a thing, mired completely in its thingness. […] So she had to satisfy herself with the idea of love—loving the loving of things whose existence she didn’t care at all about. Love itself became the object of her love. She loved herself in love, she loved loving love, as love loves loving, and was able, in that way, to reconcile herself with a world that fell so short of what she would have hoped for. It was not the world that was the great and saving lie, but her willingness to make it beautiful and fair, to live a once-removed life, in a world once-removed from the one in which everyone else seemed to exist.
The quotation above is from Jonathan Safran Foer’s novel Everything Is Illuminated. I read these lines two weeks ago and I haven’t been able to move on from them since. During the past three days, I have read this particular quote, aloud, to my friends. It’s quite lengthy, but I persevered reading, in my best reading voice, using my best pronunciation and articulation. I read this to Chenely as we feasted on the burritos and a very greasy pizza that I’d insisted we buy. She nodded along as I went through the first few lines, and when I finished she said: “Wow.” Making quotation marks in the air with both hands, she repeated, “She felt as if she were brimming…but there was no release.” I nodded, and in that moment it was enough: we both felt it, we both understood.
I read this quote to three other people. Once inside a local cinema during a blackout. Our only source of light was from a reflector, which was not much, so I had to turn on my iPod flashlight and hold it up in the air as I sucked in breath after breath after breath—it was then that I realized this friggin’ quote is too long. And why have I cared so much about this for two weeks already? And, wait a minute, is my friend paying attention to what I’m reading? When I finished, I fell silent. We both did. I think we also looked at each other in the dark for a short while. That was enough: The message was sent and no more words were necessary—at least at that time. My other two readings were abruptly inserted into conversation, and followed by nods and deep silences.
I hope everyone remembers everything. I hope everyone treasures everything.
I hope my friends know that I’ve been reading this quote to them because I feel an emotional and spiritual connection with it; that I wanted them to know me, not all at once, but little by little, through this quote, and a single moment of bravery at a time. I want them to know that I trust them with this part of me. I want them to clutch this book-hauling, quote-reading, fake-poetry-voice-projecting me, in all its ugliness, and say, “I see you. I understand. I accept.” ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-4-2015/3/
Lilly
Showers are a little complicated. My dad went to the drugstore last week and came home with a wide range of what amounted to plastic bags shaped kind of like legs; I slide one on and seal it at the knee, above where my cast hits, and I can then fling myself bodily into the water without fear. Except for, you know, the whole standing thing, since I’m still one-footed until further notice.
Crutches are a little complicated. Our school gym is two blocks away from the main building—long, university campus-sized blocks—and although I’m excused from regular P.E., I’m often reduced to hobbling a quarter of a mile down the road and back for mandatory health seminars and the like. Pavement is killer to navigate, and I swear I’m getting calluses on my sides, but at least I’m getting a workout somehow.
School is a little complicated. Thankfully we have an elevator, so that takes a load off my back—sometimes literally, if I have friends tagging along to help me with my bags—but there is no decrease in the mental weight, especially as we round the corner of our first marking period. Early application deadlines for a lot of colleges passed this weekend, and I submitted my first few just days ago. If anything, it’s even more real now than it was when I was plowing through essay after essay. Now all there is to do is wait. I’ll be hearing back from schools by Christmas.
Some things…aren’t so complicated. As of this week, I’m 17 years old—that’s simple addition. My older brother is home for a few days and continues to be one of the coolest people I know—that’s practically a given. Even in the midst of all these exams and deadlines and post-op appointments, life goes on (would that be a theorem or an axiom?). I do have a calculus test in two days and—OK, yeah, that’s a little complicated. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-5-2015/3/
Making mistakes left and right. —Ella Carlander
Steffany
I have been actively trying to transfer to other schools. The last time I went through the college application process, I was knocked on my ass. I didn’t meet my own expectations and I had to bear the burden of not being the genius child I’d been made out to be. Dissatisfaction with yourself is even more crushing than disappointing others. Read More »
[Editor’s note: Marah is taking a break from diaries this week.]
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-6-2015/3/
The weather this week has been beyond amazing and taking naps outside feels like being hugged by sunshine, clouds, and cool breezes. —Ella Carlander
Simone
The leaves I tread upon represent my optimism, my excitement, and all that made me so nervously excited for the school year to begin in the last few weeks of summer, despite the approaching reintroduction of homework and having to time your pees as to not detract from your academic studies. 
In September, these leaves were green, still photosynthesizing on their respective trees. I was hopeful. They were hopeful. The score had not been set. We did not know what was coming. Read More »
[Editor’s note: Britney is taking a break from diaries this week.]
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-9-2015/3/
Simone
The only bad part about being grounded is waking up. Those first few moments of the new day, birds chirping outside, sun shining through a cracked window, the blissful ignorance of sleep coming to an end, in which you quickly rediscover your circumstances. In my case, why is my hair wet? Why do sodden towels surround me? Why am I not in my room? Where are my friends who were supposed to sleep over after the party? Why is my mom sitting across from me, staring me down with overwhelming disgust and steady rage? Oh yeah…hah.
For the sake of my own integrity, I won’t get into why exactly I am grounded for the next two and a half months, but I will say that the other parts of being grounded are not so bad. Isolation, separation, monotony, they all seem pretty sucky, at least objectively. And yes, being confined to your room forces you to think about all the things you leave your room to escape, but it also gives you time to read the books you’ve never had the time to, and watch the films that’ve been in your Netflix queue for months, and realize that thinking about the things you leave your room not to think about prompts you to asses your underlying feelings, and possibly, discover faults within yourself. 
Boy, did I discover a lot.
Thanks to the Annual New Jersey Teacher’s Convention and my teenage idiocy, I have spent the past four days reevaluating my life, as I will spend the next ten weeks. I have realized that I used the distraction of partying, and boys, and lying, and gossiping, to escape certain realities. For example, the reality of my academic work. The fact is, I am truly struggling to maintain motivation and to put in effort this year, and because of my slacking work ethic, my desire and ability to produce, educate myself, and be creative has declined. 
My laziness and carelessness have also led to poor choices, with worse outcomes. The deepest-rooted of my issues is the self-loathing. Oh, the self-loathing. For too long have I allowed my personal value be determined by my peers. When made to feel small, I acted accordingly. People took advantage of my weakness, and the vicious cycle repeated. But ultimately, to paraphrase something Freddie Highmore once said in a really pretentious film I watched when I was 12: I was born, and I will die, alone. And thus, who do I have to impress? Who determines who I am, and how I’m seen, and what I do? That’s right. Me, me, me, and only me. And me. And, also me. 
I’ve decided that somewhere inside of me, exists a Simone with the potential to have her shit together. I’ll spend some time looking for her. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-10-2015/3/
Kiana
Last Friday’s sunset was a beautiful one. I woke up from a long nap and was duly gifted with the sight of my city, gold and glowing, under the looming twilight sky. I immediately sought high ground in order to get a good look at the unfolding magic. It was the kind of magic that leaves you gaping, breathless, and teary-eyed. After taking photos of the sky, I texted my friend Kim and told her that I can’t believe I’m living and breathing inside this beautiful urban jungle. I have never been more in love with a place.
I have resolved, since I was 16, to record or archive days and memories similar to the aforementioned one: The glorious times. I remember Tavi speaking in an interview about archiving everything, and recall her using the word “hoarding.” We can put it that way, hoarding emotions and memories. For me, the moments I hold on to are an arsenal for survival. It may not be enough to sustain everyone, but there are days in my life what I hoard is the only thing in my possession. Then, hoarding allows me to take that next breath, next step, next, next, next.
Last night, I googled “signs and symptoms of depression.” Of the 11 symptoms listed on Web MD, I ticked eight. This worries me—knowing full well that I am not just “sad,” or “down,” or “PMS-ing.” More worries come knocking, for I am aware that I live in a place where mental illness is not talked about, or even taken into consideration when one says, “I’m not feeling well.” The only thing most people consider a mental illness is schizophrenia.
This scares me more than it worries me. I know what I have to do and the actions I need to take. There isn’t much energy left in me; every ounce is spent thinking, feeling, being anxious about things. And with the kind of people I live and am around with, I don’t know where to begin. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-11-2015/3/
Alyson
The first night of this church retreat, I was about to run into the woods and go paleo until Sunday afternoon, when the buses were going back down the mountain. I was, simply, depressed and cynical. I had been stationed on the Jesus train tracks waiting for Him to hit me like a Metrolink, but no such luck. Apparently, the Holy Savior Express had become a bit tired after plowing over everyone else, and decided that I could stand to wait. Sigh. 
Hoping that the previous night’s lack of spiritual activity would cause some stir within me tonight, I threw myself into mass, then adoration. Throughout adoration, an hour long period of straight-up worship and meditation, I was witness to His train running through the weak, human-constructed walls within my church peers. The line for confession multiplied and I was suddenly embarrassed not to have eye juice washing the second-day forest grime from my face. At some points I wondered if I was the devil. I mean, why else would the HSE have swiftly dodged me on the road to its next stop?
When we assembled into small groups after the ordeal, several of my friends were just bawling. What was up with them that caused this reaction? There were things on my mind, but nothing poking at me. WHY COULDN’T I HAVE POKING PROBLEMS, TOO? I soon thought about when I did have a need to run into confession, be prayed over, or be held in someone’s warm arms despite the cold that surrounded everything else…I did, at one time, have terribly pointy problems—I just didn’t have any of these people here to help me. 
Screw what our leader was talking about (probably calling some inanimate object “the enemy” again), I was on fire. Looking at the stage-altar, Why did you make me alone during those times? Why was I forced to go through those hell-simulators by myself? I knew what the other people here would say, “God was with you! Didn’t you know that?” But I didn’t. He wasn’t. I had to crawl out of the dark on my own hands and knees. And now I’m watching these kids enjoy fully-fledged rescue missions.
My hands became clouded in warmth. Perhaps provoked by what I was beginning to believe, I heard Him “speak” to me, at last, “I was there with you.” I knew it was Him, because it was only in that time that I genuinely believed what I had been telling myself that over and again. The resentment lifted; my eyes pricked with tears; my arms were warm. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-12-2015/3/
Steffany
More and more, on this campus and in the rest of the world, I’m aware of the perceptions people hold regarding who I am. For instance, any sign of passion, or my choosing not to be passive, immediately puts me in the Angry Black Woman category. It’s not that I’m actively seeking to defy this stereotype; that’s not my burden to bear. However, when those tropes are used to minimize my viewpoints or accomplishments, it becomes a problem. 
A friend, also a black woman, told me that she’s constantly downplaying herself and her feelings for fear of being seen as “too much.” Increasingly, I understand why my mom said that being at the intersection of blackness and womanhood means that people project their prejudices onto you. For so long, I internalized the prejudice: I didn’t laugh as loudly as I might, or state proudly that I’m beautiful. Although these are things I find to be true, black women aren’t allowed to be “arrogant.” But, at this point, I’m going to have the audacity to love myself. 
I spent the entire weekend dancing around with my squad of black girls and absorbing the value of being empowered by people who look like you and who share your experiences. We’re not exclusive to be “radical,” we’re exclusive for our own survival. Sometimes self-care means leaning on people who can understand your experience from a very personal viewpoint. It’s such a relief to know that it’s not all in my head: these girls have been through similar things, and it doesn’t stop just at the school, it’s life. 
Articulating my experience to people who don’t understand how frustrating it is to be underestimated or talked down to is very difficult in the context of my school. Mick Jenkins performed at my college, and his political message was constantly cut short by white audience members stage diving and harming others, or literally yelling over him. He asked for silence as he spit bars and anecdotes about police brutality and seeking truth, yet the crowd wouldn’t be quiet, not even for the show’s headliner. “Fuck the Police” was a rallying cry they got behind, until Mick said, “A young n**** got it bad because I’m brown.” The extent of their interaction with the police is being hounded for smoking weed in public, whereas my interaction with police could result in death or serious injury—plus sprinkled racial expletives for added effect. To be confronted with these things in your day-to-day life is a struggle. Not that this threat wasn’t apparent before, but I’ve gone from a predominantly black community and school system to a PWI (predominantly white institution).
Amidst all of this, I’ve engaged in activism off the internet: There’s been a fire lit under my ass. Having conversations and actively doing the work is important to me now more than ever. I can’t react and fight every racist microaggression or overt statement. No one wins from me calling someone out every chance I can get. Also, I have to conserve my mental energy. 
The redeeming factors in my week include hugging the musician Uniiqu3 and her telling me I smell good. Seeing a black woman behind the decks play some awesome fucking music, I danced my frustrations away. (I also saw Mick Jenkins up close, he’s way attractive!) 
Discussing all my feelings with my girls has me realizing, in a weird way, that college is preparing me for life beyond college. This is just the beginning of being undermined. I may never learn to get used to it, but it’s something I’ll have to live with. That just comes with the territory. As a reminder to self, I scribbled on a piece of paper: “No longer will I minimize myself to increase the comfort of others. I embody black excellence. Blackness and womanhood are an essential part of my being. I love myself and won’t let anyone dim my light. I am too brilliant for that.” I hope that someone reading this will embody that message, as I try to myself. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-13-2015/3/
Cammy
Here are two words that sum up last weekend: hard work. 
On Saturday, I went to school to work on a mural that my friends Dionisia and Grace have designed. They created a Mural Club at our school this year and I’m really proud of Dionisia. She’s really good at art so I’m happy that she made this space for her and other people to express themselves and make beatific art. 
The mural is a mosaic and one of the figures in the mural is a huge black goddess. She’s so so pretty. We had to work on finding tiles and then spread a weird concrete onto them. The lady helping us kept saying, “Spread it like cream cheese!” But…I don’t even like cream cheese?! Anyway, we were there for SEVEN hours, ww got so much work done, though. I was in charge of music and I think I did a really good job of making sure everyone liked the songs I played. 
On Sunday, I worked at a block party—an anti-gentrification, neighborhood cleanup event. My Black Studies professor offered volunteering here as an alternative to a midterm. My city has been dealing with a lot of gentrification, which pushes rents higher. This area is severely affected because its inhabitants have less money. In the past, those inhabitants had lower rent which accommodated their income level. Lately, richer (and usually white) people have been taking advantage of the neighbourhood’s lower rents. They renovate houses and stores, which pushes the property values higher. As it starts becoming a so-called “nice neighborhood,” the rents go up and people are evicted. 
I learned that, each month, there are over 1,000 evictions in my city. There’s been a spike in the number of people without homes, especially in this area. The event was meant to raise awareness, but the people behind it also regularly make food for, and donate clothes to, people who are homeless. Over the course of our six-hour shift, we did some gardening and some cooking. Having my friend Chris with me made the whole day better. Not that it was bad in the first place, just tiring. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-16-2015/3/
Lilly
A kid at my school broke his leg a while back and came in fresh from the summer with a bright red cast clamping his knee at an angle. For all the attention and the signatures and smiley faces and wishes of good fortune, I can’t imagine the resilience that must have taken. I know all too well now the utter dependence on crutches, the inability to carry your dishes to the kitchen, staring up at the showerhead from your makeshift seat and wondering if you’re flexible enough to wash your hair with one leg tucked in the dry zone. He was recovering for months. I don’t know if I could have done it.
The thing about this particular kind of recovery is that you don’t really have much of a choice. Sure, my doctor tells me all the don’t-try-this-at-home stories as she wraps up my ankle in cotton gauze and surgical tape, but short of taking a saw to the fiberglass construction on my leg—don’t try that at home, please—I’ve just had to wait it out. So I’ve done what I can. I’ve been stopped by people in the hall just to so they can ask how I got so fast on my crutches. I’ve developed a system for transferring plates from surface to surface to avoid timidly asking my mother to take them across the room to the sink for me. And with a few tweaks to my dad’s original shower-chair blueprints, I’ve been able to wash my hair as frequently and as painlessly as ever.
That other kid, he got his cast off a week or so ago. Mine is the last one left in the school. But not for long. After 25 days on crutches—my mom counted—I’ll be following him. Without the rhythmic thud between steps that has accompanied me everywhere since my surgery. I’ll be able to walk freely and carry whatever I want and soak my ankle plastic bag-free as much as I deem necessary. It’s going to be strange.
One too many jokes on my part about muscle atrophy and a friend has fondly nicknamed my underused limb “shrimp leg.” She says she can’t wait until I’m out of my cast so we can see how much muscle mass I have truly lost. And she’s about to get her wish.
Come on, shrimp leg! There’s a light at the end of the tunnel.
Time to get in gear. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-17-2015/3/
Alyson
This is the first cold week in Temecula. I put on some clothes and my shoes and stretched. The sun had set, but it wasn’t dark. Sky-limbo is when the sun is gone but the light isn’t. It was only 5:50 PM. Since it was cold, I could just run, without going through the annoying ritual of applying sunscreen and other stuff.
Honestly, I was pretty shaken up about what to do with him. All my friends feel bad for him. Don’t they think that I feel worse? I have put myself in this situation again, where I become the devil. Although these feelings make for a painful resting life, they give me adrenaline to run with.
I have to remind myself to breathe when I first exit my cul-de-sac. In the past, I wouldn’t breathe because I didn’t want anyone to hear me, but then, after a couple minutes, my chest couldn’t run anymore. 
Instead of doing the mile loop, I ran out of my neighborhood. I can’t drive yet; running is my driving. For the first time, I wanted cars to see me when I ran. I got out to the border of my subdivision. The car lights were like white dots on a black canvas. I wanted to be seen. Why?
I was running so fast that I could only think my mind was running for me. In my cross-country days, mind was running for me there, too, until it could no longer keep up. I didn’t got tired on this run until I got very close to my street. But that’s later.
Tracing the border of sidewalk that became a fast-moving, two-lane street just inches from me—this was perfect to feed whatever mental craving was taking me over. At the end of the street: Turn in here and disappear from the audience of cars? Or…
No. I turned and ran back.
Honk.
Please honk.
I dare you to.
It’s dark now but I know you can see me.
I get one weak honk on my way down to the light. Thank you.
The way back was a little uphill, but I didn’t feel it. Maybe it was easier because part of me was hiding in the dark, but it was strange how that night I relied on something I usually avoid while running—people—to carry me through. Maybe I just needed a night off, to fall dependent on the cars and their fueling attention. 
It only took a couple hours for me to get sore. My calves felt hungover. But my mind was ready to go again—anywhere but my room, my house, my school, this snow globe. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-18-2015/3/
Ananda
You’re low, you don’t think you’re good enough, strong enough, you think you’re too weak. You’re calling yourself a coward. 
This isn’t about manning up, and you’re not a coward at all. Right now, life is hard and school is tough and you just wanna skip ahead to the good bit. But things will get easier eventually. Look how well you’ve done so far, of course you’re not a coward. You’ve been going through so much shit and hardship, and whether that’s a mental illness, grief, identity issues, or abuse and neglect, you’ve been doing that mostly on your own. 
Some days are gonna be harder than others, some weeks are going to be harder than others, some months, even. But don’t doubt how wonderful and how capable you are. And don’t put yourself down. Your family and friends love you unconditionally, and while you’re worrying about disappointing them, they’re worrying about you. Just you, not your grades, not your future opportunities, but you, right now, your wellbeing and your happiness. 
You’re a beautiful individual, I know this and I don’t even know you. Believe in yourself and good things will follow. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-19-2015/3/
Keianna
I can’t help but wonder whether the memories I’m making in high school are ones I’ll look back on fondly. 
A couple of days ago a friend brought out a picture of me circa eighth grade with the intent of embarrassing me and, as much as I hate to admit it, it worked. I panicked because I had tried so hard to force that image of myself out of my mind but she just had to bring it back up again. I felt the panic fade away when she returned the picture to her wallet; I allowed myself to laugh along as we reminisced about funny stories from middle school. But, I couldn’t stop thinking about my past selves.
I remember being around six and imagining what I would look like when I was older. I pictured myself with the best grades, the coolest clothes, and the cutest boyfriend. I figured it would just happen effortlessly. Oh, little me, I wish I could go back in time and tell you how wrong you were. Actually, I wish I could go back and leave all my past selves little Post-It notes covered with encouragements. I’d leave them for the younger me to find tucked into the books I read during elementary school, or when I gazed up at the band posters that took over my bedroom walls up until freshman year. They’d read a little something like this:
Dear elementary-school me,
Don’t worry too much about moving around a lot. Your wish will come true and you’ll get to go to the same high school for all four years. Oh, and you can’t control everything, little girl, deal with it.
Dear middle-school me,
It’s going to be OK. You don’t have to change yourself for other people’s acceptance and it’s fine to eat lunch alone. Just explain to others how you feel, don’t hold it in. You’re going to make it through this.
P.S. Just, please, stay away from the eyeliner until high school. FAR AWAY.
Dear freshman and sophomore me,
It’s OK to not have everything figured out to the last detail. People will forget about your outfit (it wasn’t that bad), your embarrassing moments, and your falls. Don’t try to change your schedule so you’ll have friends in your classes; your grades will suffer.
***
I wouldn’t be the person I am today if it wasn’t for the things that happened when I was younger, and I’m trying to forgive and accept my past selves for being so cringeworthy. I know there are things I’m doing now that the future me is going to try to forget, so I’ll end with a note to her:
Dear future me,
You must look different now, but I hope your heart has stayed the same, and you’ve held on to the love of life you gained your junior year of high school. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-20-2015/3/
Steffany
As the semester draws to a close, I find myself confronted by a host of feelings I’d labeled “resolved.” Apparently, that wasn’t the case at all. These feelings aren’t resolved or insignificant, at all. Rather, they’ve been stuffed to the bottom of the hamper or dropped off to the babysitter. 
I’m coming down off a three-month high of self-actualization and self-love, more prepared to face the world than ever. But issues I thought I’d left behind when I decided to cross the stage and get my high-school diploma are bubbling to the surface and swallowing me whole—issues I’m tired of carrying around and talking about. I’m worry often about my dreams coming true, living up to my own potential, and getting to where I want to be in a timely manner. Except, as I’ve evolved and matured, so have these fears. 
Whereas before, I was afraid to put myself out there, a step integral to networking, I’ve gotten over that. I know how to work a room if need be. I’ve been capable of being social and the life of the party long enough to create lasting relationships that can lead to other opportunities. But, as the height of my dreams increases, I worry more about access to the rooms with the people in them who can help me advance. The impending doom of not fulfilling my dreams is more burdensome than ever, especially when I’m supposed to be engaged in my wonder years. When college started, I felt like I was doing something important and worthwhile, and that feeling allowed me to tuck those other feelings away, without them nagging at me. Now, as it’s time for me to go home for winter break, I realize that I haven’t done much of anything!
I’ve been trying like hell to find the right job or internship to build up my resume, and my roommate having access to internships and job opportunities that aren’t as easily afforded me doesn’t help how I feel. When you share similar dreams to someone else and you see them climbing the ranks because of their access, you’re left with little to hold on to. It’s a lot. It takes it’s toll. There’s no handbook or guide. A How To on a White House internship would be nice, but that doesn’t exist. 
I constantly talk about wanting the world for myself, because my parents raised me to strive for nothing less. If I wake up tomorrow and decide I want the Nobel Prize for Economics, than guess what? I will hold my head high and work toward it. But what is working toward it, anyway? 
People who don’t dare dream on as big a scale as others, people who don’t think anything is possible, hit you with how unachievable your goals are. Having to protect them is a price to pay, and can be exhausting. You have to possess a certain tenacity, because constant questioning or diminishing can be discouraging. Yet, I refuse to be discouraged. I have my mentors and my family behind me in a major way. I don’t think there’s anything I cannot do. I look in the mirror and in that mirror I see a leader, someone ready to take on the world in a positive way. People can’t fathom that someone can think so highly of themselves, but it’s not really that; I have good days and bad days in the self-love department. A bad twistout can send me on a downward spiral, especially if my crush catches me slipping! 
However, even on those low days, I never doubt my abilities. Ever. Ever. And you shouldn’t either. I own my strong suits, because they’re so few. One of them is being able to lead, being a great listener, being able to speak in front of people and sell them my ideas. You have to play to what you’re great at and cultivate the talents you feel you lack. I would list my shortcomings here, but I’ve been dwelling on them for far too long and I am taking a mental break from that. Go ahead and take your mental break, you deserve it. I have earned mine after years of being really hard on myself.
When I talk about attaining what I want for myself, I’m not necessarily talking Jordan Belfort proportions—it can be small scale. Like, I wanted the syllabus in my class changed. I led the charge, and my professor recently gave in, after months of me voicing my concerns. I talked to my classmates to see if my idea was the consensus, and to check whether they’d support me. The support part was iffy, but I’d realized there was at least a consensus among us that he wasn’t doing things in a way we liked. And, if I’m paying, I’m saying! In class, I had a conversation with the professor yet again, but after saying my part, I created a poll-style system for people to offer their input. Some of it verbal, most of it nodding, but it worked. People stood behind me! Although some were reluctant, perhaps fearful of being penalized for rocking the boat. Once they saw that wouldn’t happen, they were on board. That was a big win for me! In a sense, I put myself on the line in a major way, but it was something I felt was worth doing. It fueled me, so much so that I wasn’t upset when he took credit for the changes to his syllabus that I came up with, and which he’ll use for his class next semester. I was in a celebratory mood after that! 
I do party and have fun but I’m constantly thinking about what can be done to climb the ranks. I’m never content, which used to bother me, but now I think it’s innate. I thought that fire in my belly should be quelled because people like me weren’t innovators or natural business leaders. I was afraid of saying I was excellent at this or that. In my class about leadership, one of my professors looked around and said, “Not all of you will be leaders or change agents.” But I knew he was not talking about me: I had decided for myself what I was going to be long before I sat in that class. 
During admissions decision week, I cried on the phone with A, a longtime school friend, and he told me I’d be OK no matter what school I ended up at because I was a “shark.” When I thought my low grades disappointed my parents, my mom told me she didn’t have to worry about me because she knew, I’d “be alright!” Those words meant the world to me, then and now. I’m not sure which direction I’m going in, but I’m taking off sprinting toward something, anything. I’ll wither away and die otherwise! A little bit of black girl ingenuity can take you a long way, ask my girl Oprah. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-23-2015/3/
Simone
If I pass my driver’s test this Friday, it means the state of New Jersey deems me at least a satisfactory driver. It means I get my license.
If I get my license this Friday, it means that I can start asking my parents for the car.
If my parents let me have the car, it means they deem me at least a satisfactory driver, and that they trust me to return home with myself, and in the car, intact. 
If I return home with myself, and in the car intact, I will trust myself to drive my friends around. 
If I drive my friends around, and they willingly get into my car, it means they trust me with their own intactness. And their lives. 
If people trust you with their own intactness, and their lives, you are a good driver. 
If I can somehow be a good driver, I will consider myself a master of the road.
If I become a master of the road, then my options are limitless. No destination within the continental United States, or North America, and Central America, will be out of my reach. I can pick up ice cream or McDonald’s or sushi or Q-Tips whenever I want them. I can go to the beach in any season. I can drive West to the open country and hike, or steal a baby calf, or just stop on the side of the road and stare. I will have the means to properly dispose of a body. I will drive alongside grandmas, and soccer moms, and business people, and student drivers. And I will be their equal. I will have the authority to operate a two-ton vehicle. I will be free. 
But of course, this all depends the quality of my parallel parking skills. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-24-2015/3/
Thahabu
People ask me why I’m so private, “Why are you so guarded? You should open up more.” It’s because I never get the response I’m hoping for when I finally decide to confide in someone. They end up “complimenting” me on how brave and strong I am, but I hate when I tell people my problems and they reply, “You’re so strong you’re such a fighter.” I don’t want to be a fighter. I’d give anything to have never had those experiences. Being a fighter is fucking rough! As short and frail as I am I’ve never felt small. Everyone cracks jokes about my size but then wants me to do everything alone while also carrying their load, whether it’s emotional or physical. 
I do not want to be strong anymore. I spend 95 percent of my days wishing I could lay my burdens down in someone’s lap and just cry for the rest of my life. They like me when I’m strong but will they like me when I’m weak? When I grow tired of carrying them, and what seems like the rest of the world, on my shoulders, will they still love me? ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-25-2015/3/
Lilly
1. “Wǒ yào chī turkey,” my friend says, and tosses the ball to me.
I point at her, “Tā yào chī turkey,” and then at myself. “Wǒ yào chī mashed potatoes.” It’s the week before Thanksgiving break and we’re spending our lunch period in Chinese Club playing memory games. It’s clear where our minds are going.
“Tā yào chī turkey, tā yào chī mashed potatoes, and…” The game’s next victim looks around the room for inspiration, “Wǒ yào chī cranberries!”
Of the five of us, two of my friends speak the language, so the game is mainly us other three getting closer and closer to the correct pronunciations while they try to fool our memories on the English parts. At first, I’m apprehensive that I’ll mangle the four words I have to know, but I quickly put aside that particular bit of irrationality and focus on not being pelted with the ball when it’s my turn to speak. Later, I find myself quizzing my friends on pronouns and the difference between titles and honorifics and realize that what used to be fear has rapidly become an insatiable desire to understand.
2. One of my best friends asks me three times if I want to learn a dance to one of her favorite songs with her. As full of mixed feelings as I am (It would be fun! but you can’t dance! Yeah, but it would be hilarious!), my ankle makes the final call. “I can’t do any footwork while I’m still in the boot,” I remind her each time, and she groans and apologizes for forgetting. But maybe, I think, maybe after. A year ago I would’ve said “absolutely not” and left it at that.
3. Someone stays up late with me telling me stories about their family and I think to myself, I want to have stories for people to tell about me.
4. “Lilly, you’re covering my calc book,” says my friend, chuckling, trying to push my head off of her line of text.
I turn to look at her. “Wǒ yào chī bagel,” I say, and she laughs. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-27-2015/3/
Keianna
Sometimes on social media, I come across a single post that makes me want to reevaluate my entire life. Recently, I made my biggest online discovery since memes. Sitting in my grandma’s living room at 2 AM I decided to take a break from watching Masters of None on Netflix (Aziz Ansari—need I say more?) to check my Instagram feed. What I saw was life changing. “You are completely capable of changing your entire life.” I don’t remember what the actual picture was but I remember that the caption made me stop scrolling. I think it might have been how obvious it was—if I didn’t like something in my life why couldn’t I just change it? It was so simple, that I was a bit upset that I hadn’t realized it sooner. 
Nonetheless, I opened the notes app on my phone and got to work, it was easy enough to decide on what I wanted to start doing and how I was going to achieve it. I wanted to be awake early enough to not have to rush. Cool, setting my alarm to 5:45 AM and not hitting snooze seemed to do the trick. During class I seemed to always be pulling my phone out to check social media but turning my phone off during class and putting it in my backpack nipped that in the bud. I was so happy that I had made plans and where sticking to them, but there was one thing on my list that I was actively avoiding.
• Think about who’s a good friend to you and drop everyone who isn’t.
It didn’t seem to be that big of a deal when I typed it, but there it was, taunting me. When I sat down with a pencil and paper to write who I was sure were good friends, I got a decent sized list. However, I was shocked that the people I hung out with on a daily basis weren’t there. 
What if I had to drop them? The possibility that I would have to throw off the warm blanket that was my friend group and expose myself to the harsh winds of high school was terrifying.
After sleeping on it for a few days, I went to the friends with whom I had concerns. I kept my voice even and strong as I sat down and explained to them what was wrong. Some of the discussions were heated, some even ended with me having to say goodbye to people I’ve known for years. What really helped was sitting in silence and thinking about the best memories I had with the people who would no longer be in my life. It was hard, but necessary for me to live the life I want to, and cross off the last thing on my list. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/11/dear-diary-november-30-2015/3/
Lilly
In my dream I am running. I don’t feel like I have to stop. I might be sprinting on the asphalt at the end of my street or through some gravel alleyway or across a field of unkempt grass—I don’t know. It doesn’t make any difference to me. All I know is that I am running and there’s no pain and I won’t stop until I have to.
Yeah, my alarm says, you have to.
The air cast comes off, for good, in a few days. Beneath its clunky frame, the incisions have been reduced to clean pink lines in a stark V-shape across my ankle. Sometimes, when my parents aren’t home, I rip off the Velcro straps that secure the boot and walk gingerly across my room with nothing between the sole of my foot and the floor, pins and needles prickling up through my calf. I’m more than careful. It never hurts.
One of my friends’s favorite bands releases a new music video and within 12 hours of its release someone brings up the idea of recreating it for fun at our next sleepover. That quickly escalates into planning how we’ll shoot specific scenes and what props we’ll need to find and how we’ll recreate their high-fashion getup with cheap, lookalike costumes. When we go, we go all out, and we go together.
The title of the music video is “Run.” ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/10/dear-diary-october-9-2015/3/
Cammy
Good news: I am making up with my dad! After another argument over all this, we finally talked about (almost) everything and we’re on good terms. I’m happy our fight is coming to an end, and I hope feeling better comes along with this resolution. 
It’s no longer weird to be at home. I can sit downstairs with everyone and watch TV as we used to. I don’t have to sneak around in my own home just trying to avoid my dad. And when I’m at my mom’s I won’t be dreading each day as it gets closer and closer to switching houses. This is what I needed to get back on track. Of the two major problems I’m dealing with, this thing with my dad is what I can actually fix. I’m excited for all the good coming, like my grades. I’m on track to get at least a 3.0 GPA right now; these past few years I’ve been scraping a 2.0. I’m so happy to bring home good grades; I know it’ll mean a lot to my parents. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/10/dear-diary-october-12-2015/3/
Thahabu
I thought the flight to San Diego—my first time on a plane—would be the most adventurous part of my trip. It wasn’t. I entered the ocean for the first time in almost seven years. It was 1 AM and I had forgotten my swimsuit back in New York. All of my friends stayed back in the lower tide while I kept moving forward, deeper into the water, until the ocean brushed the folds of my denim cutoff shorts. As overjoyed as we all were to be at a California beach, my friends couldn’t understand why this was such a spiritual experience for me. 
Even after my surgery, I was self conscious about my scars and how severe my scoliosis curve still was. I didn’t mind going to public pools with Leah and other close pals, but beaches were another story. After being diagnosed with severe curvature of the spine I became hyper aware of how I looked, afraid of being scrutinized. In my mind, beaches became public pools times 1000, an area where hundreds of strangers could gawk and laugh at my deformity. I avoided them at all costs until that night. I was wearing a crop top and short shorts instead of a bathing suit, but feeling the cool Pacific engulf my thighs made me feel welcome there, like it was time for me to come back in my two piece. Not just to return to the beach, but to start branching out—to face the fears created from my paranoia of being scrutinized or rejected. It felt like the start of falling back into myself. Becoming me all over again. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/10/dear-diary-october-13-2015/3/
Kiana
I am starting to feel the intensity of what I have been doing for the past two months dawn on me. I am starting to reap what I sow. My bones have started to strain against my skin, my breathing started to hitch, my eyes end up watery more than usual.
This week, I did nothing but rewatch the whole Pirates of the Caribbean franchise, all four films. I started watching The Big Bang Theory online. I started cooking quick little meals for me and Gran. I obsessively scour the internet for interviews and talks by my favorite writers, and practice the art of masterful notetaking as I nod and whimper and kind of cry a li’l bit as I go through the videos.
Pirates of the Caribbean reminds me of my childhood days where I would binge-watch every thing HBO offered. How simple those days were, how fleeting also. The Big Bang Theory kinda reminds me of How I Met Your Mother, and both of these TV series helped me get my mind off of things, not to mention helping me out when I needed some pals to laugh with or at. Cooking meals for my grandmother is my way of showing that I care for her. Watching my favorite writers talk about what they love most (i.e., writing, journaling, DIY, thrift-shopping, et cetera) brings me to a whole new level of understanding them, and at the same time expands my respect for and devotion to the craft.
I’ve always been afraid of stagnation, of not growing where I am planted. This time, though, I feel different. This time, the guilt that I have so cruelly placed on myself for feeling my feelings is starting to dissolve. Finally, I am claiming ownership over my lost kingdom by taking infantile steps and by being patient. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/10/dear-diary-october-14-2015/3/
Cammy
You know that super stressful essay that I was working on a few weeks ago for honors English? My teacher said that I wrote one of the best essays in my class! I’m so happy because I really worked hard on it. The prompt was to argue whether A Mercy by Toni Morrison should keep its title to represent one mercy in the novel, or be changed to “Mercy” to register all the different acts of mercy. I argued that “Mercy” was a better title. I’d been doubting myself about it because my teacher always says that essays in his class are really hard, so getting this high score is the validation I needed.
This weekend I saw He Named Me Malala. It’s showing at a local movie theater and my school’s feminist club wanted it to be one of our first field trips of the year. I didn’t know much about Malala before I watched the film, only that Malala is a teenage Pakistani girl who was shot by the Taliban because she advocated for girls’ right to attend school. My friends were really excited about it, though, so I was interested to see it. 
It was really good, I really recommend it. In some of scenes, there wasn’t any footage, so instead they used these cute animations: they were so dreamy and simple and bright. It also showed aspects of Malala that probably wouldn’t get reported in the news, like how she video chats with all her friends still living in Swat Valley. Or how she gets annoyed with her little brothers just like anyone with younger siblings. The movie didn’t just revolve around her either: We learned about her dad overcoming his insecurities about stuttering and becoming a public speaker, and her mother’s struggle to adapt to living in England.
A really good part of the film showed Malala’s speech at the UN conference. I’d never heard it before and it was so otherworldly to see how passionate she is about girls having a right to an education. I saw it as an important issue before watching this film, but something about seeing a girl my age achieving so much made doing something about girls’ education seem more possible.
There were so many things I didn’t know about until I watched this documentary. I learned that Malala was named after a folk hero, Malala of Maiwand. Malala of Maiwand was also an outspoken teenage girl who inspired the people of her country (Afghanistan) to fight against the approaching British army. It’s said that when everyone was running away, she climbed to the top of a mountain to encourage her side. Malala of Maiwand ended up being killed because she spoke out, and Malala (Yousafzai) and her father both talked about what her name means, and whether her being shot was inevitable since she was named after such a figure. 
Probably one of the most important things this film did for me, was to help me check my privilege. I complain about school a lot, and so do a lot of people. We all have valid reasons, but it’s just so devastating that there are girls actually being attacked for wanting to learn. I’m lucky to have access to an education, and now I can be more conscious about this kind of thing. 
After the movie, my friends and I were at a loss for words, but there was a really good vibe hanging around. It was nice to experience the movie and that feeling with them. This, and having a LONG overdue sleepover with my friend Suze, made my week a great one. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/10/dear-diary-october-16-2015/3/
Alyson
Lately I have been feeling a tug to go to church, to the post-mass youth ministry program. At first, I couldn’t tell whether it was a spiritual pull or a sexual pull (yeah, there were some nice guys). After tonight, I know my reasons for coming transcend things like nice eyes and height.
I developed this theory a couple of weeks ago, that I was possessed while going through my ED and depression. It started out more as a metaphor than a theory. Listening to C, the youth ministry leader, talk about the devil and how he can infiltrate made everything come together. The devil, he will tell you, lies about yourself until you are consumed. I was consumed. I was consumed for so, so long. But now, I felt so alive. I had an answer to this cloud of mystery. When we broke up into “small groups,” it was all I wanted to talk about—but, of course, I didn’t, following in the pattern of taboo topics.
After regrouping and listening to C declare Victoria’s Secret “diet porn,” the lights went out and we sang. Some kids get really into it: mostly the popular kids. There was a point after the second song where C quietly invited us to kneel down and pray before a glinting object that was supposed to represent Christ’s presence. 
I always think “thanks for everything” first when I pray. It seems like such a cheat, but it’s just a warm up. Thank you for leading me here, for my opportunities, for my house and my food. “Thank you for caring enough about me to fight the devil out from inside of me.” ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/10/dear-diary-october-19-2015/3/
Alyson
You have the wrong person is what I think, sitting across from Dr. B, D.D.S., in his office. On his desk is a set of fake teeth trying to smile behind two metal bars, one on each row. He insists on looking at me at all times, even when I am looking away so that neither he nor my mom can see the water fertilize my eyes green.
Today, I found out via text that I “need” braces, and that I also had to make a decision about whether to have them now, since I am, like, 50 years old in braces years. At first I didn’t sweat it: They couldn’t make me do anything. But now it would appear that hosting several rude teeth aliens is in my best interest.
As the doctor opens another tab on his computer to show me Facebook pics of his son—who, as it turns out, is one of the most popular senior boys in school—I tumble into new ways to upset myself. Like I didn’t have enough body burdens (see: every diary of mine, ever), thinking about boys just takes the cake. If I had problems with them as a bracesless person, how would I ever, say, fetch a prom date with my mouth irregularities?
When Dr. B stepped outside and my mom skillfully added lipstick shopping to the deal, I agreed, but not without tears. If there was one thing that I didn’t think I’d ever have to worry about, it would be this. And especially NOW, when all of my friends are just attaining tooth liberty.
Two days later and I got the suckers. My mom, of course, thinks I look cute, however she would most likely find the braced little devil-girl from Finding Nemo cute, too.
Would it be a day with my friends if there weren’t any Stacy-from-Zoey 101 references regarding my “free gift with purchase” lisp? I cover my mouth with my hand every time I laugh. The most common response I get is sympathy, which is a relief, considering I have already thought most of the mean things anyone could say.
Why do I care? In the theme of all things pre-pubescent and nostalgic (i.e. BRACES), I totally felt like Hannah slash Miley in that early episode of Hannah Montana where Lily gets a pimple and Miley tells her to calm herself, and then Miley is in an ad where she has a pimple added to her face and suddenly CANNOT DO LIFE any longer. I can tell myself I don’t care about popular opinion, or what boys like, but I do. I do I do I do. I guess I always knew, in the depths of this soul, that I did. It only took these wires locking me down to childhood for two more years to accept it. Cheers to the full teenage experience. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/10/dear-diary-october-20-2015/3/
Kiana
I cancelled meeting up with a friend the other night because I did not feel safe with my body being exposed in public. It was not the first time. I feel bad about it, and conflicted, too. The thought of my friend hanging out alone with people she barely knows puts a sinking feeling at the pit of my stomach. But the thought of me being vulnerable to the world makes me cringe and feel overwhelmingly anxious. I keep telling myself that it’s fine and that I should prioritize myself, but I can’t shake off the idea that I am a terrible, selfish friend (in particular) and person (in general). 
This is an everyday scenario in my life. If I were to honestly record all my thoughts and feelings in my journal, this would be the gist of, like, 368 entries. 
I haven’t fully embraced the idea that I am in a love-hate relationship with my body. I want to be constantly in love with it; I want to be in love with myself, always. I don’t ever want to entertain comments about my body save for the “You look friggin’ amazing” kinds. I want to inculcate in my mind, heart, soul, and anatomy entire that I am not trapped in my body, I am trapped in other people’s perception of my body. But these kinds of days, they always come, and there’s no stopping them. An affirmation and a li’l sprinkle of a sunshine-y thought here and there fends them off for a while, but they always visit and linger. They are unwanted lovers, unwelcome visitors: They are thieves, and they are masters of the craft.
I wanted to curl up into a ball—to tuck away my legs, tummy, and all the parts of my body deemed “excessive” by the people I meet regularly, by society. I wanted to be there for my friend—to create beautiful memories and enjoy the night. 
I chose self-care and to shield myself. Does this make me less of a friend? What about my friendship with my body?
I am still conflicted. I want to trust my decisions, the words I speak, and my ideas. I want to trust myself completely, undoubtedly. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/10/dear-diary-october-21-2015/3/
Simone
Today, I accidentally uploaded a screenshot of a Vine from June 2013, in which I jokingly Jersey Turnpiked a boy. Jersey Turnpiking, as defined by Urban Dictionary, is “to dance face down, ass up.” For four whole minutes, this photo was public on my timeline, meaning that for four whole minutes, my 956 Facebook friends had full access to the upload. Old elementary school teachers, old elementary school friends, aunts, uncles, cousins, parents, family friends with high moral standards, friends from the summer camp I went to five years ago, enemies from school, hot boys I want to impress at school, and Mac DeMarco’s mom all had full access to this post. They could’ve screenshot it and sent it to their friends for a laugh. They could’ve liked the post, providing it a signal boost, and thus spreading it to more people’s feeds, for further humiliation and judgement to ensue. Worse yet, they could’ve scrolled past in disgust, taking me for the kind of girl who would purposely upload a screenshot of Vine from June 2013 in which she Jersey Turnpiked a boy. God forbid they ever see me as that person.
Although, I totally am. My accidental Facebook upload was the result of my sharing the photo to Facebook from iPhoto. My true intent was to save the photo to my iCloud library, so I could post it on “finstagram,” a platform for the embarrassing, brutally honest, incessant, often narcissistic updates in its users lives. And after I took down my Facebook post, I did upload it to finstagram. I got a significant number of likes.
For years, I have tried my very hardest to maintain fluidity between my internet persona and real life persona. I want to be the same online as I am in real life, but often I cannot help but not be the same online as I am in real life. This internal battle was best exemplified, when in ninth grade, I invited a boy I liked over, with whom I interacted marvelously on Twitter, and got nervous. For the majority of the three or four hours we spent together, I barely said anything funny, or anything period. At one point he turned to me and made a brilliant observation. “Simone, you’re way funnier on the Internet.”
Of course now, I have blossomed, and become more adept and secure. The feelings and actions I display on the internet are reflective of those I’ve experience and acted on in real life, and vice versa. Now, the real question seems to be more directly related to the polishing of my dual personas. In real life, I find it very easy to determine how to present myself in a situation. Your audience can be seen, heard, sometimes felt. Yes, because I am me, there will be times I make myself look like an ass, or say or do something I should have, but that’s my nature. On social media, your connection with an audience is simply observed, through secondary sound, text, and image. Thus, my friends and followers determine my presence and decisions on social media, and when I post, I’ve learned to be aware of who these friends and followers are. Nothing on the internet is private or sacred, no matter how many settings or subtweets I employ to evoke feelings of protection.
So, on Facebook, I am to be neutral. People of all ages, from all aspects of my life, have access to my content. On Twitter, I can be weird, because my generation openly accepts buffoonery, and Twitter’s concept and usage are inherently weird. On Snapchat, I always have to be a little basic. Why else would its creators have provided me with geotags, or the time and temperature? There are unspoken rules for these things. Don’t Instagram twice in a row. Don’t abuse filters or hashtags. Don’t do anything on any social media platform that Jaden Smith does, unless it’s in an ironic way—in which case, do it in excess. 
This is why it’s so easy to tell that The Real Cost’s ads were written by disconnected adults. In them, Vine and YouTube stars bring to life text memes to patronize tobacco smokers. It’s meant to be funny and appeal to people my age, but anyone with a brain cell devoted to thought about social media knows YouTube peaked in 2010, and Vine died the summer it became popular. Text memes are vile, and to remain strictly on 9GAG, for sixth grade boys.
More than anything, this indicates that my generation is the first to ever consume social media culture the way that scheming Zuckerberg originally intended. We know it best, and use it best, because we are most attached to it, because we use it most frequently, because it does, and will continue to dictate how society interprets us.
I swear that upload was a mistake. Girl in Spanish class who sits behind me and is devout Christian and also my Facebook friend, I’m sorry if I hurt your eyes. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/10/dear-diary-october-22-2015/3/
Ananda
Buffy the Vampire Slayer changed the whole genre of horror and action, and aimed it at a teen audience. That’s not the only thing that made its concept so amazing. We usually see the small blonde girl as a victim to the monsters pursuing her, but Buffy would often turn around and say something witty to her pursuer, making it known that you didn’t mess with her. 
Femme power shows up in a number of ways in Buffy. Buffy herself represents physical strength, as she often uses her own body as a powerful weapon, seen in her use of martial arts and just in general with her superhuman strength. Willow, Buffy’s best friend, embodies mystical and mental power. Willow is extremely talented in a mystical sense—her use of witchcraft—and she’s known to be a technology and science whiz. A love for technology and science is usually a trait assigned to male characters, the show turns these gender roles on their head by assigning these aptitudes to Willow. The character Anya, an “ex demon” shows that women can be monstrous in the same ways that men can be, and that women do not have to be sexual and extremely feminine in order to be dangerous and deadly. The character Tara represents the emotional strength that women embody, and the character Dawn Summers represents the power that ordinary, non-magical, non-slayer women have. Six of 12 of Buffy’s main characters are women—actually good representation for once! It was new and fresh and I don’t think we’ve had a show of its kind in a long while. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/10/dear-diary-october-23-2015/3/
Steffany
There’s always at least one saving grace from a shitty situation, the shitty situation at hand being my academic experience. I have met, in this short span of time, two women who’ve actively challenged me to be better. One is the TA for my college writing class. If it weren’t for the fact that my professor is a decent guy, I think I’d rip my eyebrows out due to sheer boredom. I feel as if I’m spoken down to, the coursework consisting of worksheets and over analysis of basic concepts. I’m not trying to act like some literary genius, but I think I have a basic understanding of how to write. My professor seems like Guy In Your MFA come to life. You know, boyish in looks and charm, oblivious about the world outside of the bubble of his literary aspirations. He paid an exorbitant amount of money for his writing education, but hey, one of his professors won a Pulitzer or something important like that. He’s writing a memoir about his life, although he’s in his early thirties. I jokingly say, “Do we really need another book about the complex lives of white men?” Except, there’s a little truth behind every joke, this one especially. 
His redeeming quality is his acceptance of late work, lenience when it comes to my showing up late to class, and picking a brilliant woman to act as his assistant. I’m not OK with the idea that she’s some kind of protégé of his. Without a doubt, she should be teaching the class. She’s receptive and kind. She has become my sounding board when wanting to know which direction to go, and my support as I figure out my next steps to transfer out. The other day, I looked her directly in the eye and proclaimed: “I am without a doubt, the greatest thinker of my generation.” I just blurted it out after dominating a conversation on prison reform and activism. This wasn’t an idea that she challenged me on. She encouraged me to continue to think that and to hold on to whatever passion was brewing in me. It was a small moment, but one I value immensely. I might tell her that.
My second source of inspiration this week comes from another professor of mine. She’s the only actual woman professor I have and she’s a Black woman at that. She wanted to be addressed by her first name. Initially, I found that difficult. Culturally, I was raised to not refer to adults by their first names; It was usually Ms. such & such, Mr. so & so. It took three or four classes before everyone could actually bring themselves to call her by her first name. She teaches her class with a heightened cultural awareness missing from the other classes I take. A grammar lesson can end in a conversation about the use of African American Vernacular English in Drake’s “Hotline Bling.” 
Last week, she handed out short stories, each one by an author underrepresented in college writing classes—Edwidge Danticat, Junot Diaz, Jamaica Kincaid, and Octavia Butler. She challenged us to think about why these people, and the narratives they tell, are so marginalized in the literary community. It was a really important moment. We talked about the ideas of the patriarch in West Indian families. We argued amongst ourselves about religion. The smallest things seemed to make the hour fly by—and the semester feel much more worthwhile. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/10/dear-diary-october-26-2015/3/
Lilly
1. I wake up before my body does. My brain is working lightning fast, trying to figure out if there’s any pain and why I can’t sit up and if the IV is still prodding at the back of my hand. Apparently I am sitting up now, but I don’t know how I got there. I’m trying to open my eyes but they keep falling shut and it takes more effort to keep myself conscious than it does to lift two hundred pounds.
2. The needle leaves a tiny dot on my skin and beneath it a faint bruise, barely there. I clench my fist and play Spot-the-Vein.
3. The painkillers make me nauseous. I curl up on the couch and dig at the tendons in my wrists, trying to find the trigger points that I used to press on when I was little and got carsick. Sometimes I fall asleep. Sometimes I just wish I could.
4. We go in for my first post-op appointment a few days after the event. The nurse very carefully peels off the bandages and cotton wraps on my ankle, explaining what she’s doing at every step and checking my pain levels routinely. The surgeon comes in to remove the last of the dressings. “The swelling looks normal,” she says, pleased, “and the bruising is nothing out of the ordinary.” I can’t see the two largest incisions, just the tiny ones on the top of my foot, each held shut with a single stitch and ringed by discoloration. She wraps everything back up and the nurse comes back to fit me for a cast. “It’ll feel a little tight,” she tells me, and slowly bends my ankle into position. It feels like finally cracking my back after slouching for days.
5. I can go down stairs but I can’t come back up. I try to hoist myself into the house braced on my mother’s shoulder but there is too much give to it and my foot bumps around in the cast, too-new muscles trying to tense and sending shocks of pain rocketing up my leg. When we finally make it inside I have only the energy it takes to throw myself on the couch and try to breathe again. Everything else can wait. It’s going to have to.
6. Three weeks left in a cast. Two weeks after that in a boot. 
7. I can do this. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/10/dear-diary-october-27-2015/3/
Thahabu
Friendship keeps me grounded. Having a few close friends to experience good times with reminds me that I’m human. But I have trouble relating to a lot of the people at my school. I have a tendency to make fun of myself and my troubles. It runs in the family, my dad doesn’t find anything funny in heavy situations, but my sister, aunts, cousins, grandma, pretty much my entire family, can turn a personal catastrophe into a comedy skit. It keeps us sane, if we couldn’t laugh how would we survive? We’d be forced to wallow in our pain. 
Lately, the people I’ve been running into don’t understand that. They don’t laugh, and even get concerned, when I make light of the very real situations I’ve been in. One of the few people at this school around whom I can be myself and always make fun of my problems is Jewel. Not only is she my one African/black American friend here, but it doesn’t hurt that she also does nothing but make fun of herself and horrible situations, too. It’s really refreshing to be around her. I can finally breathe and stop pretending to be something I’m not. Sometimes, I feel like we’re old ladies sitting in rocking chairs when we roast each other and talk. 
Just two weeks ago we were sitting in my bed having a regular conversation when she brought up her childhood growing up in Chinatown on the Lower East Side. She went to predominantly Chinese schools as a kid which made her very confused: At times she believed she was Chinese just like the others she lived around and attended class with. Her neutral look widened into a smile as she described trying to “look more Chinese” and having her parents explain to her why they don’t celebrate Chinese holidays. That episode of Black-ish where the son asks his dad if he can have a bar mitzvah because his white Jewish friend was having one immediately appeared in my head and I started giggling with her. As she delved deeper into her younger self’s twisted view our laughter became uncontrollable. Chuckling, she struggled to get out, “It’s n-ahht f-u-nnyy HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA.” And there we were holding our stomachs and gasping for air in my bed for a good two-and-a-half minutes because Jewel’s life sounded like a sitcom. 
It was the happiest I’d been in weeks. It felt surreal, as if we were floating—I felt light. We were on a cloud above all the bad that waits for us below and tries to bring us down. With tears rolling down our faces, I couldn’t tell if we were crying because we were laughing so hard or because we’d become aware of how often we use humor to mask our pain. Maybe it was 90 percent because we were laughing too hard and 10 percent because our lives are ridiculous. Either way it was a high. I hoped for more moments like that one. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/10/dear-diary-october-28-2015/3/
Kiana
My body is giving up on me. I have been feeling feverish for a week already, and I have an unusual swelling on the right portion of my leg just above my ankle. It’s a mosquito bite but it swelling up because, according to WebMD, I’m allergic to mosquitoes—specifically the sting of a female mosquito. I planned to get myself checked by an allergist this weekend but when I got to the hospital, the doctor wasn’t there because it’s a weekend and consultations run for half day only.
There’s life: Just when I had the nerve to have myself checked by a doctor, the doctor isn’t present. I guess this stands as a metaphor for some other parts of my life. Just when I have the strength to confess my romantic feelings-turned-obsession for someone, he isn’t there. So I kinda had to 1-800-HOTLINE-BLING him on Facebook messenger to set up an appointment. (Get this: I call it “appointment” so I don’t have to write the word “date” here.)
We agreed to have “the talk” this coming full moon. The downside, though: He doesn’t know that we are gonna have “the talk,” I just said we “should meet for coffee sometime this month.”
I know I have nothing to lose. I know that I need to do this because I deserve the peace of mind I assume I’ll get from closure. (I really hope there is closure.) I need to know whether he feels the same way as I do. I need to know because these are questions I cannot live with.
Why are romantic confessions in novels and movies so clean and un-disheveled even when they are spontaneous? Do the characters endure sleepless, anxious nights thinking about the worst things that could happen when they confess?
My grandparents raised me Catholic. I had no way out of it. I graduated from a Catholic high school and it was protocol to attend confession every month. I mostly skipped, but on days when I couldn’t, I’d go last, assuming that the attending priest would be so tired hearing 36 teenagers spew their sins and ask for forgiveness and absolution. I asked my classmates how they felt after confession. Mostly they’d reply, “I feel forgiven and cleansed.” But I didn’t feel forgiven or cleansed. Instead, I felt more aware of my sins, to the extent that every single day after confession was like being inside a rigid military camp, or like I was watching myself on CCTV.
Why is confession so frightening? Is it because confessions are a way for us to spit the truth? If so, then I’m grateful we have a word for it. But, why does the truth scare us? ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/10/dear-diary-october-29-2015/3/
Britney
Fase (noun): The phase preceding a crush. The moment when you see someone and you slowly become mentally attracted to them. 
Shunklings, Down 2 Clown, Track 7, “Fase,” 7 minutes, 33 seconds. 
Inside out and out again:
Imagine that you see a beautiful boy across the room—allow yourself to become an early 2000s teen-movie cliché for a moment, and indulge in it—and don’t bother pursuing him because it could never happen. It has never happened. You forget about it in an instant. 
Later on, you are talking to one of your friends and busying yourself with some menial task when you feel someone’s eyes on you and turn slightly to find the boy in the haziness of your peripheral, looking at you, unmoving. You make a split-second decision not to freeze up and continue talking to your friend, finding yourself to be surprisingly casual for once in your life. He remains a still figure in your peripheral vision until you turn around a few minutes later to throw him a quick glance. You are still too nervous for a full-on gaze.
                        (a tender, tentative touch)
Back inside myself:
Even later, I walk out of the bathroom and find everyone gathered in a circle, swaying and singing along to “Dancing Queen.” I stand on one side, next to one of my best friends. “What do I do?” I shout to her. “I don’t know how to dance, like, at all.” During my month-long stay in inpatient I listened to this song during iPod time almost every day, but I do not associate this memory with what is happening until much later.
She grabs my hands and energetically forces me to sway with her. I comply, laughing, until it no longer feels natural and I drop my arms by my side, standing slightly awkwardly in the middle of the moving bodies. I look up, a sudden jerk of my head, and he is right across from me, looking at me. I look back and he looks back and we are lost in our looking as “Dancing Queen” continues. His mouth morphs into a grin and so does mine; I begin to laugh again. 
It is so beautiful to share yourself. It is so beautiful to share a moment with another human being whose eyes expose you. When things come together so well it seems like too much of a pure occurrence to be a true thing in this world. 
That night, I stare at his number, hastily written on my phone. I eventually text him and we make plans to hang out on Saturday. Outside, the warm orange glow of my building’s lantern expands, as if it is absorbing all of the good energy flowing out of me. I think of how I whispered out my window days earlier to the person I had not yet and the words return to me, full circle. ♦
http://www.rookiemag.com/2015/10/dear-diary-october-30-2015/3/
Steffany
“Way up, I feel blessed” is the only apt way to describe the week I’ve been having. The past couple of days have consisted of me checking my phone constantly, in hopes of catching catch the NPR giveaway of Pharrell tickets. It was very important that I win, if not for me, then for the fam. I grew up listening to Pharrell. My parents were relatively young during the reign of the Neptunes, Missy, and Timbaland and the records they produced. So, these are the sounds I heard at home. The futuristic production and metallic pings blared through the stereo system, and became indicative of it being clean up time as well as a dance party. I’d say my first brush with Pharrell’s music was his production of “When Boy Meets Girl” by Total or “Superthug” by Noreaga, maybe it was “Give It To Me” by Jay-Z. They surely produced a lot of good shit. However, I’m here to talk about the Neptunes & their contribution to Kelis’ career. 
I’m a huge Kelis fan, my fangirling doubling and tripling as I get older, because of newfound ability to articulate her significance in my life. Kaleidoscope came out in ’99, “Caught Out There” was the lead single, so I missed the initial impact of the Kelis era. Although, I grew up enamored of the video. However, I felt her presence was in my household and she became a great influence on me. She definitely doesn’t get her just due. Her singing is brimming with attitude. Like, on the song “Good Stuff,” when she sings, “Give me this, give me that, aw yeah, so wack,” she’s clearly eye rolling & can communicate that expression vocally. On “Ghetto Children,” she’s so genuine, it’s like your big sister sitting you down giving you life advice. Also, it’s important to note that she told the girl she’s addressing in the song to study math and her sciences. Kelis is a pioneer even outside the realm of music, fashion, and food. That lyric dropped long before Black Girls Code existed, she birthed everything. Don’t try to dispute this, ’cause it’s FACTS. We are all Kelis’ sons and she don’t want custody. 
Pick an era of Kelis’ career and I can get into its influence in my life. Like when “Bossy” ft. Too Short came out and my cousin had the Kelis short bob done. I mean she cut off all her hair to replicate this style, and when everyone would see her they’d just go, “I’m bossy!” In retrospect, she probably could’ve gotten a quick weave but Kelis’ powers will have you cutting your hair off hoping to look half as cute. Flesh Tone is also really good. I copped that with my own money, and told all my friends to buy it too cause I’m like a one-woman Kelis street team. It’s an electronic dance music album but the production is really accessible. It includes cuts like “22nd Century” in combination with an album cover where she looks like a high priestess?! She contributed to Afrofuturism, too. Does it ever stop? No, not with Kelis. I’m not even going to delve into the Food album, just go listen to “Floyd” with your eyes closed, please. Get your life. 
Of the conversation at NYU, Pharrell’s Kelis-centered answers were the best part for me. Pharrell acknowledged that Kelis is an extremely talented woman who doesn’t take no for an answer. Oh, and she got him on to brands like Prada: My girl is stylish, too. She made pocketbooks out of throwback jerseys. She had wild hair long before Tumblr was inundated with pictures of Black girls with a range of curl patterns and hair colors. She embodied this alternative black girl rebellion, and that resonated with me in a way riot grrrl never could. Kelis is one of a kind. I like no nonsense bitches. I am a no nonsense bitch. I love that she exuded confidence on her albums like Kaleidoscope, Tasty, and Kelis Was Here. And I like that when I play “Suga Honey Iced Tea” or “Glow” on the Bluetooth speaker and I see my Mama in her zone jammin’. The relationship I have with music is extremely personal. Lately, I’ve been reaching back and really making sense of my influences and they’re mostly fly ass black girls. There’s never a Kelis picture I see where I’m not like, “Damn. That’s a look.” And then I notice that my edges have been snatched away. 
I keep saying I will make music, but time hasn’t allowed me to. Given my recent existential crisis after someone asked me, “What do you do?” the whole Pharrell NYU talk has put a little pep in my step. I know this was supposed to be about Pharrell but Kelis, though. She made all this good fucking music and now she’s making good fucking food. She has a cookbook and everything. She refuses to be put in a box, she does it all. Skateboard P said this is his favorite thing about Generation Z. Our inability to stick to one thing is looked down upon by some, but who says you have to remain stagnant in one career? Pharrell doesn’t think so. I don’t think so. Kelis doesn’t think so. They’re the only people who matter anyway. 
Kelis is mad influential, y’all. Give her a retrospective at the MoMA. ♦
