I remember the moment I became uncomfortable with my skin. I was in fourth grade and I realized that I had small black dots in the weird flap of skin under my lips and above my chin. I found that if I jutted out my teeth out far enough, and pulled my bottom lip back, I could pick at these dark bumps, which my mother told me were blackheads. I would probably have perfect skin right now if she’d never introduced me to Biore Porestrips and extraction tools and squeezing.

I was always cognizant of my protruding stomach. I spent a lot of time staring at it, very hard. It was the result of being a perpetually constipated child with a penchant for Annie’s Mac and Cheese. One day, also in fourth grade, I stayed home from school, afflicted with nausea. I couldn’t hold down food or water, and I’d exiled any bile left in my system. I looked in the mirror. My stomach was flat. This is how I had to look. This was good. But my arms were kind of big, and my thighs touched at the top. I spent the rest of the day following Exercise TV routines on demand.

Much later, in eighth grade, I found out that dress underlined intent. My style had always been simple and comfortable. Leggings or jeggings, an oversized graphic tee, and a jacket from my father’s arsenal. Interests could be expressed through T-shirt design, and flavor injected by shoe choice. But girls were supposed to wear things that made their butts look good. Butts mattered. Girls taught me that. So my shirts became smaller, and the flannels came off. Except I forgot an important step.

Two boys were over—one a raging (but sometimes helpful) narcissist who got off on humiliating me, the other his equally cruel (but quieter) friend. Of course, I wanted to kiss both. Ultimately, I realized that the sidekick was far more attainable than the lead, and thus, I devised my plan. We three sat in my living room, in addition to one of my more finely-tuned female friends who’d agreed to aid in logistics. After a brief make-out session between Lead and my friend, Sidekick asked for water. I got up to get it for him. I suppose he and Lead watched me walk out of the room, because shortly after I received I text from Lead. He said I should fix my underwear, Sidekick could see it. “Were they too small?” he pondered. I pulled out a wedgie and headed back to the sofa, inching in closer to the boy I so desperately yearned to kiss. I still see it, Lead noted, this time aloud. I bolted upstairs, quickly, as to ensure no one could pay attention to my butt, searching for a pair of panties that couldn’t be seen through leggings. But I was 13, and I had no thongs, and I hadn’t even considered that thongs were a thing I could or should own. And what were cheekies? I only knew of Jockey.

I didn’t kiss Sidekick. The next day, my savvy friend brought over three thongs she’d stolen from her Grandma. 

Every day, with every worthless word, we get more far away.
The distance between us makes it so hard to stay.
But nothing lasts forever; but be honest, babe.
It hurts, but it may be the only way.

—Maroon 5, “Nothing Lasts Forever”

These lyrics mean so much to me. For me, this song is not about being in a relationship, although it sounds like that. It’s is about the conflict that we have inside ourselves when we struggle to trust our own ideas or when we lack motivation. These lyrics also remind me that throughout my life I’ve tried to make the world listen. I have not conformed or tried to change the way that I dress or look. I have tried to scream at the world in the hope that someone will hear me. It’s just harder for people to hear what I’m saying because I don’t look like the model image of how society says girls should look. That’s really unfair, because I have a lot to say.

I just hope that someone, whoever they may be, is listening to me.

this is what it must feel like to be a strand of clean hair
this is what it must feel like to be the seed of a lemon
this is what it must feel like to walk dogs in the dark

this is how it is if you are the one drop of yellow in the five drops of blue
this is how it is when you wake yourself up every day just to recite your stories of the world
this is how it is.

it must be hungry to be a palette
it must be paralyzing to be a book
it must be amazing to be the one spam email I accidentally opened this morning.

this is what it must feel like to be a strand of clean hair
this is what it must feel like to be the seed of a lemon
this is what it must feel like to walk dogs in the dark

this is how it is if you are the one drop of yellow in the five drops of blue
this is how it is when you wake yourself up every day just to recite your stories of the world
this is how it is.

it must be hungry to be a palette
it must be paralyzing to be a book
it must be amazing to be the one spam email I accidentally opened this morning.

I am relocated to a new corner of the house now, a new room for me to paint whatever teenage angst there is left of me. In the first days of sleeping there, I noticed faint traces of strange scents, probably dried-up cement or a leprechaun under my bed? And then, two days ago, I came down with a cold. But, in the quiet halo I spend lying on my bed most afternoons when class is still three hours away, I come back to that space and yearn to get a hold of the dappled sun dancing across the sheets and onto my face.

Good news from the front: As I was rummaging through two boxes and a trash bag repurposed to store books, I found a copy of The Secret Diary of Laura Palmer. I remembered unearthing this book from a box left behind by a guest in our house when I was in third grade, and reading it secretly when no one was watching, either because I was too young to understand the mildly erotic scene on page 37, or because I liked the thrill of having something secret to myself, and to myself alone. This spurred me on to writing diaries, even asking an aunt to get me a nice notebook with a lock on it for Christmas. Glad to remember this li’l history of my li’l life. Thank you to Jennifer and David Lynch, and to Laura Palmer, I guess?

Ooh, I almost forgot! Coldplay is coming to my country the summer of next year. I was so excited, I’ve been saving up for ticket and airfare for MONTHS. Then, the event promoters declared the tickets sold-out while I was still in the friggin line to get one! What do I even make of this? What’s a girl gotta do to see a bunch of guys who have created music that saved her a whole lot of times? Cry, I guess. 

I have never resented being an empath more than I do right now.

The friendship I terminated at the end of the summer was recently brought up by someone who enjoyed hanging with the both of us, together. We were a trio before things went sour. He came over to say goodbye before I returned to school to finish out the fall semester. We spent an hour catching up on each other’s lives and laughing. He asked if I had talked to the girl since the breakup, because he really wished that we could be the three musketeers again. I told him I blocked her in every way possible after our fight and do not plan to talk to her ever again. He frowned, replying, “That’s what I thought.” He explained that when he asked for the girl’s side of the story the week before seeing me, the only thing she was mad about was that I made her feel bad about all the terrible things she did the night before. (Basically, it was OK for her to harass, call me names, and stress me out that night, but when I responded in the same way it was wrong—a case of “I can’t take what I dish out.”) She told him that she behaved that way because she was in a dark place. Her self-esteem depended on attention from men, which somehow excused her behavior and made her the victim in the situation, as if I don’t have my own real shit that I slog through every day.

She also said that she never cherished our friendship and she was never actually my friend, but was using me as someone to vent to and project her insecurities and anger onto when she was having guy problems. This is what I found most unsettling, not because I wanted her friendship back, but because we were friends for three and a half years. I shared a bed with this girl on multiple occasions for sleepovers that she organized. How do you listen to someone’s deepest secrets while knowing that you couldn’t care less? How could this person so easily slip into my life to use me up, give me an emotional beating, and then throw me out? She did a terrifyingly good job at pretending she was my close friend.

What I see now is that she saw my casual attitude about sex and relationships as a threat to her own confidence. In her mind, girls are supposed to obsess over how much attention a guy gives them, and if they don’t they’re “just like a man,” they’re a fuckboy—what she called me when I would tell her about my confusion over why one of my sexual partners was berating me for not having romantic feelings for them. Apparently, there’s no way a “regular” woman can find joy in having casual sex and being independent.

She often warned me that men go after empaths on purpose because they’re easier to manipulate, but that’s exactly what she did to me. Now I know why sometimes I felt like she was treating me like one of the guys she hooked up with who didn’t text her back. A friend shouldn’t take her frustrations about romance out on her friend who has more casual view on sex and relationships, shaming them and calling them names simply because it reminds them of their unrequited love interests. No friendship should be filled with that much drama.

I feel bamboozled and frightened. I told this person things about me that no one else knows under the impression that she valued our friendship. In turn, this situation is having a negative effect on how I view the world and relationships. It’s like I’m in the twilight zone and I can’t trust anyone. I’m so paranoid. I keep thinking my friends are just pretending and everyone is out to get me, that they are all laughing at me behind my back. I don’t want to have this outlook, but I’m wary of building new friendships with women now: How will I know they are really my friend? How do I know they aren’t just a predator trying to gain something out of my being an empath?

I hate feeling this way, and I don’t want to be a girl who says they don’t have female friends, but after this experience I don’t think saying that is always just about impressing guys! Women can be just as a abusive and manipulative as men. I know it sounds dramatic, but when a girl has a bad experience with an ex-boyfriend and she writes off boys for a while, many people would tell her it’s OK and she deserve to take that time for herself where she hates men. How do I get back to trusting other women again? I genuinely want to know, I’m tired of walking around with this paranoia.

That friendship made me feel so ashamed to be me. I used to love being me, but past abusive relationships have tricked me into thinking I shouldn’t. I want to get to a place where I take great pride in myself again, but also want to wrap myself in a cocoon of all my band shirts and cry.

I found this quote on Tumblr:

As a Gemini, you find yourself at odds with people. You want to go with the flow but all too often you find yourself with people trying to control you or trying to weigh you down. You seem to attract people who are threatened by your free-spiritedness. Don’t worry about those people, worry about what fills you up so that you can fill others up with goodness. Don’t settle with people whom you will build resentment with.

I don’t want to fill others up with goodness if it means they’re going to return the favor by taking advantage of me and stabbing me in the back. ♦

I’ve just started to binge watch Gilmore Girls and I’m such a Lane Kim! I’m awkward, a fantasist, and I can be more invested in others’ lives than in my own. Lane is actually one of my favorite characters because I relate to her, especially with the weird hair-touching of Rich Bloomenfeld (of Season One, Episode Eight). I feel like that is something I’d probably do in that situation, cause I’m just as creepy.

On another note, I went to an eye appointment a few days ago and the lady who served me described the glasses I chose as “hideous.” I was too sad to say anything, so I just sat there looking at the floor. The thing that made me really insecure, though, was that the glasses I chose are almost identical to the pair I already wear (they’re the glasses that Bill Haverchuck wears in Freaks and Geeks). I started wondering, Do I look hideous? I felt so low about the situation that I posted a small paragraph about it on my Instagram story and soon after, I checked my direct messages and a girl sent me a really kind message telling me that my glasses give me clarity and to have a good day. I messaged her back thanking her, and told her that I was sending positive vibes her way.

It made me really happy that someone I’ve never met before could reassure me about something that was bothering me a lot. It felt good to know that there are always people looking out for me, no matter how far away they are.

Nothing new has been going on in my world. I’ve just been incredibly busy, busy, busy. Hoping that somewhere at the end of this semester is my way out of academic probation. I’ve been working really hard, but I’m at that weird place in my semester where I’m not sure if I’m in the clear yet. Finals are fast approaching and I’ve been putting my praying Nana to work these past few months. I’m also trying to find an internship for next semester. I’ve been washing and rewashing my interview outfits, taking off onto the train, and hoping for the best each time.

When I arrived at my most recent interview, the woman who was supposed to interview me wasn’t there. I was so disappointed, because I’d confirmed that date not once but twice! A woman who works underneath her stepped in to interview me instead. I was nervous. She seemed about her business, and I was sure she was going to grill me. It was awkward initially. She was very quickly rattling off my responsibilities as an intern, all of which seemed incredibly daunting—coffee runs, laying out breakfast, tending to the other staff members’ every little need. It wasn’t until she mentioned transcribing that I found my in. I used that to discuss my editorial experience and how I’m hoping to use that as the foundation for a job working in TV. I told her how ideal this internship would be in figuring things out, while also bringing my experience transcribing interviews, working with others, and writing to the table. She seemed pretty sold. What really brought the interview home was when we discovered we were from the same hometown and grew up a few blocks apart.

Lately, I’ve been realizing how small the world is. It’s so important to always be as kind as possible. I’m genuinely a great person that tries to put my best foot forward. I know I always mean well, and so with that, I hope that I’m rewarded with all of the things I want in life right now. I don’t feel as if I’m asking for a lot. I’m just ready to kickstart what I’ve long envisioned for myself: A fire academic record, an even better internship, and some coin in my pocket! ’Cause Lord knows a bitch is broke. Broke, but for once in a long time, in a really great headspace. Won’t He do it?

1. New York is leaking. This feels like something I would grasp from a Metro headline, ABC-7 Chyron, but I see it in the Union Square station and the flooded concrete banks of Lower East. Someone burst our bubble.

Woman is dancing with ties near the moving platform…woman is dead somewhere near my school, somewhere in one of the Heights, somewhere in the hole in my ceiling. I hear thumps in it at night that are louder than the subway. I tell myself to become one so they will not decry my languid body a foreign one to expel.

On the train, woman in the corner jolts awake and vomits up an orange chunk duvet that just barely misses my right foot. I have not vomited on a train since age one but they purge me on occasion.

1a. Something I just found out: The two primary definitions for “purge” are opposites within a whole same—

verb: rid (someone) of an unwanted feeling, memory, or condition, typically giving a sense of cathartic release.

noun: an abrupt or violent removal.

2. Some warm parallels: Discussing the fifth dimension (original concept accredited to Miranda July) with Tavi—when there exists a rift between a person’s general demeanor and how they exist in their art; heart attack realization during my daily show run that The Twilight Zone refers to the surreal region of that name as the fifth dimension.

A friend asks me what my favorite number is—I tell him lucky 13 and he shows me the number in Roman numerals inked onto one of his fingers

I have a dream in which one of my closest friends is walking alongside me with such a stressed expression that it stays with me when I wake up. I message them and they tell me that they had a dream in which the two of us are confronting their deathbed and traveling the circumference of their life’s roulette wheel until it leads us back to denouement.

3. Mom’s death anniversary: 11/26. Mom’s birthday: 12/12. I always called it lucky. She was a lucky strike and I extinguished her. Never forgive me for it.

In the first week of school, my friend gifted me a cat-shaped coin purse that she had bought during a trip to Japan. I quickly made it my go-to wallet. Like most belongings that are very important to me I constantly checked up on it throughout the day, just to make sure it was still in my bag.

I spent the first part of Thanksgiving break at my grandmas’ house. We didn’t do much except watch Law and Order, Criminal Minds, and Blue Bloods. I’m not complaining AT ALL because those are my favorite shows, but on Tuesday I decided it was time to venture out of the house and see some friends. We skated (they skated, I fell off a skateboard a couple of times), shopped a little, and went for lunch. It was a really great day and the last thing we wanted to go do before I left to run errands with my grandma was go to the thrift shop.

This is the part in my story where my little coin purse and I part ways. It must have happened while I was trying on a pair of brand new shoes that would soon be the the peak of my thrifting career. As I pulled off my bag to check I had enough cash, I noticed that it was already unzipped. I figured I had just left it open by mistake, but ran a quick inventory of the contents of my bag just in case:
My jacket? Check
My camera? Check
My wallet?
My first instinct was to run as fast as I could to have an employee open the dressing room door. It had to be there. Everything was taking too long. Ignoring caution and running on adrenaline I knocked on the door of the dressing room to make sure no one was in there before I shimmed under the door. It wasn’t there. It wasn’t ANYWHERE in the store.

By this point, I had been anxiously looking around the store for 10 minutes and my grandma had just walked it. Through my tears I told her what happened and waited for the scolding that didn’t come. She was gentle as she talked to the employees and kept her cool as we took the short bus trip to the bank to freeze my debit card.

“There’s nothing we can do about it. This is your first adult problem.”

She said a lot of other things to reassure me but those two phrases really stuck with me. There was no way I could go back in time and stop someone from stealing my wallet while I was distracted. I could blame myself and dwell on it all I wanted, but I’d done all I could.

This was my “first adult problem.” So there’s more? It’s a common thing for adults to tell you that things only get harder when you complain about seemingly insignificant problems. That has often bothered me a lot, because I figured that they were just overdramatizing adult life. Oh ignorance, my old friend, please take me back! Maybe I’ll start carrying around stickers with words of encouragement to give to myself and my peers whenever we encounter an adult-sized hurdle.

Oh, and if anyone happens to be stopping by Japan in the next couple of days, can you pick me up a coin purse?

It’s cold!

I’m inside and I still feel as though my hands are gonna fall off. The only time it’s OK to be this cold is when there is snow. The weather says it’s four degrees but I don’t believe it. I reckon we’re now in the minuses.

Christmas is fast approaching. I have done the majority of my gift shopping, and I’m looking forward to giving them to the people I love. I’ve decided to make my ’net girlfriend and best friend “open when” boxes. These are boxes of letters and small tokens to be opened on certain dates, to coincide with specific events, or when feeling specific emotions.

The Christmas tunes are being played constantly in the shops, and I can feel the excitement of the shoppers and the disdain of the folks who work there. Soon we’ll be getting cards through the letter box and seeing fairy lights in every window and eating and drinking twice as much, just because of the season.

I went to see Moonlight with a friend. I did not cry in the theatre but two hours later, in my dorm bathroom. The movie ascribes its main character—a black man, and many other black men—a sympathy and fragility that usually isn’t given them. So many people I know would benefit from watching the movie, but I remember a few days before the screening, I was online looking at comments, and this raggedy hotep suggested that black people should boycott the movie because it “emasculates black men” and “made the black community look bad.” Black men hurt, they cry, they break, and it frustrates me to no end that there are losers out there who think it makes them less of a man, because that attitude in turn teaches black men and boys that they should suppress these very important and real emotions. They go through so much, especially while living under white supremacy, they deserve to cry. None of those actions make you any less of a man, they make you human.

There was one scene that made me go, “Oh my God, it’s really 2016.” I smiled. I would’ve cried but my tear ducts weren’t working for some strange reason. The shot is the antithesis of toxic black masculinity. It was surreal. It was something I thought could only happen in romance movies with an all-white cast. That’s all I’ll say.

I think the universe is messing with me because I had the same reaction at a Mitski concert a few days ago. She had these two stellar bands opening up for her, and one of them was Weaves. I had never heard their music before that night, and I’m so happy I did. I walked into the venue to see a brown girl with curly hair singing at the center of the stage. She looked like angel, the way the soft red, blue, and orange lights enveloped and lit up her afro. I’m not sure why I was so surprised, but seeing her take that place on stage made me feel all warm and fuzzy on the inside. Jasmyn Burke’s voice has this bold matter-of-fact essence to it, and the loud guitar riffs and drums felt like an aggressive much needed embrace around my body. I swayed left to right as she sang, “I want two oceanss toonightttt.” It meant so much to me to see another brown girl doing punk, and then to find out that her first name is Jasmyn, spelled with no regard for the typical English spelling of it, just like me and other girls with unique names, I felt so represented and validated!

These feelings were magnified once Mitski took the stage. “I want you to know this is your space…I want you to take up all the space,” she proclaimed to the audience. Tears slid down my cheeks, and before I knew it I was heaving and silent crying in the middle of the crowd. Her words reassured me that in a time like this, when people are going out of there way to make sure me and those who look like me will never feel safe, that there are people on my side and that this is just as much my world as it is anyone else’s. I spent my whole life feeling like I don’t belong, that there’s no place for me and I’m undeserving of respect and genuine relationships. Those thoughts invade my brain now more than ever with the recent election results. That is why I’m so thankful for women of color like Mitski, Jasmyn, Drea Smith, and Kayla Phillips in the punk scene. The way they choose take up space in such a white, male dominated genre fills me with this thick, sticky, overwhelming joy that I’ve never felt before. It makes me so much more comfortable with myself.

Although these are scary times and some believe the culture is at an all-time low, I think we’re living in such an experimental and creative time for art. I keep thinking about how 20 or 60 years ago people were dreaming of attending concerts like that, or seeing a character like Chiron in Moonlight. They fought so hard to have a place in these artistic movements, and now we’re moving toward a point where marginalized people don’t have to abide by the rules of white supremacist capitalist patriarchy. I don’t have to be what you want me to be. I can and will do whatever I want. The future is such a beautiful place, and for the first time in my life I don’t wanna be anywhere else but here.

My time at home is brief. I meet my brother’s boyfriend and visit family I have not seen since the summer. My cousins are all taller than me now, growing up in the literal sense. Sometimes I find myself hiding from them all, retreating to somewhere quiet, my mother my only pursuer. I tell her stories about physics that I’ve picked up from instructors along the way. It’s the only way to get them out of my head, crammed as it is with questions about extrasolar planets and magnetism and cosmology—relentless.

I meet a professor from the local university with coffee. For an hour or two he empties my head of those questions and fills it with new ones, about C++ and real analysis and elusive big data.

I fly back to school alone. I become precise, methodical again: unpack, get dinner, do laundry, do homework. I clean my half of the dorm rapidly, efficiently: scrub the sink, make the bed, stick up the posters that crawl off the wall every three days, put on music to drown out the commotion in the hallway as more people slink back to their rooms for the next three weeks. And it’s only three weeks: two of classes, one of exams. I have recommendation letters to request and essays to draft for research program applications. I have no time to be tired. I know this isn’t beyond me anymore. 

I’m reading through old diaries and recounting memories in preparation for an event I plan with my friend every few months. It’s called “Dear God, It’s Us,” a night in which we host readers to bask in nostalgia, sharing their most intimate and embarrassing past diary entries.

Nora Ephron once said, “When you slip on a banana peel, people laugh at you. But when you tell people you slipped on a banana peel, the laugh is yours,” and I guess that’s the guiding philosophy behind the readings. Feelings and thoughts that were once painful, distracting, even shameful, become hilariously funny in retrospect, so why not share the joy of self-deprecation with an audience? It seems the more personal and specific entries are, the better they are received. In fact, the most popular pieces have concerned one of three things: love, sexual frustration, or the intersection of both.

I can only really speak for myself here, but I don’t think there is a single entry in any diary I’ve kept since entering middle school that doesn’t mention boys at least once. It’s as though there was some bullet point I had to check off in the rubric of crafting a well-rounded entry. I talked about what boys I liked, what boys I loved, what boys I kissed, what boys I talked to, what boys didn’t like me back, what boys I wanted to dismember, and which boy I thought I would like next. There are entire sections of my high school career that I can remember only by which boy I liked or was with.

Of course, this is kind of horrible. A victim of perpetually low self-esteem and a devout narcissism, I’ve spent the past four years overanalyzing moments and interactions for romantic and sexual meaning. I’ve filled my brain with knowledge of past pairings, crush’s interests, optimal hallway routes for cute boy sightings, and memories of monotonous interactions, and documented all of this in handwritten record. I cried over boys, spent time away from schoolwork and creative thought for boys, and cried over boys some more. I can’t even begin to fathom the amount of time, energy, and brain space, I’ve wasted on these many crushes, which sometime last year, I totaled to be around 35.

Now, it feels like this little part of my childhood has died. I still write about boys in my diary, it’s routine after all, but my updates are far more mundane. There is no longer a fiery spirit inside of me guiding interaction, no longing, no jubilance, no heartache. There are entire sections of my life that I remember only by a crush and my interactions with him. Now, I feel nothing—no undying love for anyone besides myself, and that confuses me. Without these phases of seeming love, who am I? How do I fill this void? And more importantly, how do I remind myself that I’m a human with feelings and desires? Is this the inevitable result of boredom or something greater? Have I changed forever? Will I ever “love” again?

Most importantly, why do anything if not for male validation

y class schedule for this academic semester is wild, shifting from two classes in the morning and two in the evening. Although at times I don’t quite know the relevance of taking up core courses (those totally unrelated to my major), I still find them fascinating, either because of professors who take to the heart what they’re teaching, or me feeling too young and inexperienced to boldly confine myself to one subject.

There was never any more inception than there is now,
Nor any more youth or age than there is now,
And will never be any more perfection than there is now,
Nor any more heaven or hell than there is now.

—Walt Whitman, “Song of Myself”

On Friday, my country, the Philippines, failed to uphold its democracy by allowing the body of Ferdinand Marcos, a former dictator, to be buried in Libingan Ng Mga Bayani (Heroes’ Cemetery), 27 years after his death. (Prior to burial, the former dictator’s body was preserved in an air-conditioned crypt in his hometown in the northwest corner of the island of Luzon; if this isn’t creepy enough for you, then I don’t know what is.) The ceremony was done stealthily on Friday morning, with the public only knowing a few hours after. Many on the left took to social media, enraged, while those on the right asked for forgiveness without ever actually uttering the words. The Supreme Court of the Philippines ruled on the issue by allowing the burial, but due to numerous appeals and protests carried out by the anti-Marcos left, the issue wasn’t really given any closure. Thus was the public’s surprise when news of the burial spread.

This has become a very sensitive issue in my country, and most people affected by Martial Law are still grieving over the pain and loss, 44 years later. I understand their pain and sympathize with them more than I understand those on the privileged side, those who enjoyed living on the misery of others, the people who felt entitled to forgiveness without sincere acknowledgment of their transgressions. The Marcos apologists demand that the issue be closed and quieted down now, but they should know that forgiveness doesn’t come easy, and nor does forgetting. That’s why even in death and in the grave, he is still considered a thief by the Filipino people.

To do: Retrace the lines of history and know exactly where the fault lines are; take notes and know that this could be repeated; prevent repetition of historical scars; uphold the sanctity of the land and the rights of its people under our democracy, no matter how stained by previous and present leaders. Do the actual important work of remembering, pondering, and fighting.

“Some students have a background, identity, interest, or talent that is so meaningful they believe their application would be incomplete without it. If this sounds like you, then please share your story.”

My greatest interest is learning. My favorite place to learn from is YouTube, where I watch videos about weird conspiracy theories. My favorite conspiracy theory concerns the Denver Airport, which a lot of people think was built by the New World Order. I don’t believe in the New World Order, but it’s kind of funny to pretend I do. Except sometimes, the evidence is so strong that I question whether it’s just irony guiding the hours I spend researching triangles.

My greatest talent is figuring out people’s ages. I think about years a lot. I know it’s just simple arithmetic, but I’m always thinking to myself, how old is someone born in 1986 right now? And the answer would be 30, unless they were born in December or late November, in which case they would be 29. But another person, let’s say they were born in 1945, well they would be 71, maybe still 70. It’s so interesting how time works. It’s different for everyone but it all works the same way.

The most important thing colleges should know about me is that I am not a millennial. I strongly dislike being called a millennial. (I don’t use the word hate because I have a personal conviction that it is a strong word.) Millennial has such a negative connotation—not that there’s anything actually wrong with millennials, I’m just not one. A millennial is someone who didn’t have social media until they were a young adult. I was on Facebook in fifth grade. Therefore my generation needs a different name. I’d suggest iGeneration, in the vein of the generation-defining television show, iCarly. Oh, did I mention that when I grow up I want to write for TV, or other some kind of career involving similar skills and carrying the same social stigma. That’s why I have to go to college, so I can do that.

I hope you liked my essay and now understand that I am a unique student with her own thoughts and ideas. Please accept me. Please. Thank you.

My age is hindering me, and that fact has been on my mind for most of the month. I’m too young to make big decisions by myself but old enough to understand that I’m missing out on some cool experiences. On top of that my life just seems to be one inconvenience after the next—they range from minor to major but happen constantly. These two things have left me with a lingering feeling of dissatisfaction and sadness that I’ve been unable to shake.

I allow myself 10 minutes to get settled in when I get home from school before starting my homework, which doesn’t get finished until right before I have to go to bed. This leaves little time for the social activities I used to be able to enjoy. When we moved a couple cities away from school I didn’t think it would hurt my social life as much as it has. No one really likes driving to pick me up, and getting rides is always a problem. My sisters and I get along most of the time but because they are twins and there is an age gap of three years between us, they prefer each other’s company. There are tons of people in my house but I feel like I’m by myself all the time.

Last night, my best friend and I decided to see The Edge of Seventeen. Her mom picked me up and we did our usual routine of not really greeting each other until we were out of the car. As confidently as we could, we walked to the window and asked for two tickets. The employee responded with “Of course! Can I see a valid ID?” No you cannot, kind lady, because we are actual CHILDREN who don’t have the proper form of ID that would allow us to see an R-rated movie. Saddened, we decided to go get some food and figure out how to get tickets to the next showing. We got Chipotle, which I promptly dropped on the floor after a few bites because I’m a mess. Figuring there was no way we could get anyone to buy us tickets to the movie we wondered around the plaza. We bought matching hand sanitizers and CDs and enjoyed each other’s company.

When we finally got home, defeated and exhausted, I was welcomed by words of encouragement and love from my friends. It seems like they help me find the answers to every problem I have. While I still feel that small air of sadness around me, they help me forget about it for a little while. 

“Oh, look at that. Fascinating,” he says.

“And the offset,” I say, “could that have been caused by the impact that led to the axial tilt? A redistribution of the mass—there are moons like that—”

“I would counter that,” he muses, “by drawing attention to how similar the B-fields are. Since the planets themselves are so alike—”

It’s not a situation I could have imagined myself in two months ago, but here I am in my astronomy professor’s office, meant to be discussing my class schedule for next semester and instead debating the significance of Uranus and Neptune’s particularly weird magnetic fields. When I eventually trade places with the next student he’s advising I hear him say “Come in. Oh, Lilly and I were just talking about—” and it’s a little surreal, to finally have someone I can have those conversations with. It’s a little odd, too, awkward. He’s my professor, not my peer. (I get incredibly self-conscious about how often I say “um.”) But in the end, we’re just two people who care about the same thing and I feel emboldened by his willingness to listen, to address my questions without condescension.

***
The first snow falls. I call my mother that night. She says, “Will your flight home next week be delayed?”

I hope not. At my roommate’s request I lay siege to the crank that supposedly operates the central heating in our dorm room until something creaks and bubbles and warm air gushes forth. On my numb fingers it feels like a fountain of youth.
***
Packing to go home is difficult. I brought a subset of my belongings with me when I came here, and now I am bringing a smaller subset back. My bag ends up light: a pair of jeans, a few T-shirts, a flannel, enough socks and underwear to last the week.

I’ve felt lost at times while I’m here, but in the end I do feel like I belong. It just doesn’t feel like home—it feels like summer camp, like I’ve barely been here a week. At the same time, I can’t figure out when meandering solo across campus and trudging up the stairs to my room became so routine, so ordinary that I don’t bat an eye at the thought of living on my own. I still call my parents every Sunday, but somewhere in the mix I think I’ve grown up. I just don’t know what that means yet. 

Beautiful disasters:
A crushed flower on the pavement.
Sunshine peeking through the trees and into your eyes.
Breakfast with one mouthful left.
Hot chocolate before the marshmallows have melted.
Long silences as we look into each other’s eyes.

You:
Photographs where you’re blinking.
Singing at the top of your lungs even though you can’t hold a note.
Lipstick stain on your skin.
Lights being put away on Boxing Day.
Sex after a fight.
Hugs goodbye.
Spilling glitter on the carpet.
Snow seeping through your shoes.
A love song crossed out with pen.

Me:
Coffee cake.
Reading the same book for the fifth time.
Dreaming of you and waking up.
Presents you pretend to like.
Sleeping without you.

