Kiana
This week, I’ve been thinking about the possibility of going back to school. The possibility of a fresh start and, in my case, a second fresh start.
My grandmother told me to return to academia now because “one never knows” when she’ll “depart from this realm.” Since she is the one financing my college education, she’s afraid I won’t be able to graduate once she’s gone. She’s all I have, really. I reflected on what she said for a whole night and got all anxious about it. The following day, I set my decisions on the ground and let them run with me.
I’ve been eyeing a fine arts college near my place and went there four days ago to ask for the course overview. I got interested in the Visual Communication major, since it involves photography, and photography is my second true love, next to writing. As anxious as I am, I did not enroll right away and excused the delay in enrolling as time to think things through. Long story short, I did not enroll in that fine arts college.
I keep assuring myself that there’s nothing wrong with me, but I know the solution will come only once I acknowledge the problem. I know this. Yet, somehow, I don’t appear to know the point of applying this truth to my own life. I’m all brainwork and mindwork; I don’t generate enough energy or vibe or force to bring to life what I have learned and thought about. What is wrong with me?
This delusion—of my being ready to go back to school—is crippling me. I know that. Yet, somehow, I keep going, keep waking up to another day, keep drinking the usual morning coffee, keep reading the same pages of my journal, keep going to work, keep breathing. Rinse, repeat. 
When did I learn to stop living? Since when did I not have a life?
I torment myself so much with all this brainwork. I guess there are things in life that do not require deep, philosophical thinking. Sometimes you just have to take one leap of faith; let the disk of risk run its course; trust blindly and head into the void. Rinse, repeat. ♦
Cammy
I’m having a really hard time pinpointing how I’ve been feeling. I’ve been trying to sum up how everything has been going lately and it’s just not easy. I think that I just need to be with my friends more. I think I’ve been feeling lonely and disconnected because of everything that’s been going on. I feel guilty about not spending time with my friends which is bad because I usually can’t help it. Things just haven’t been normal, and there’s not really a way to describe why that is. 
It’s fair to say that I’m doing better at least, but maybe this way I’ve been isn’t actually an improvement. Seeing a certain person can turn my day way down, to the point where I’m not talking and doing regular work seems pointless. I’ve been trying new things but still, I just don’t feel like myself. It’s weird and scary. I don’t like how other people can have such a negative influence on my life. 
I want to be more like me again. It’s hard to just put this stuff away. Usually if something is wrong at home I can forget about it at school, but now there are issues at home and at school and I don’t get a break. I honestly don’t even like talking about everything that’s going wrong because doing so only makes things harder. ♦
Simone
Don’t be nervous. Stop telling yourself that he regrets ever going near you. He doesn’t. But he might if you keep being a neurotic, nervous prick.
Stop avoiding looking toward that side of the room because he’s sitting over there. Stop wondering if you look bad from his vantage point. You’re too hard on yourself. And if you do look bad, he shouldn’t care, and won’t, because it’s just his vantage point and no real reflection of you. He knows that, and you know that: Stop being an idiot.
Don’t spend your every moment in the halls worrying if you’ll pass him and if your voice will go high when you say “hi,” or if you’ll even say “hi” at all. Stop fretting that you will have to initiate the greeting yourself. Do allow yourself to pass him without saying anything, because sometimes, that just happens. It’s a hallway. It’s no indicator of his feelings or your feelings or anything really.
Stop thinking about him so damn much. Divert these passionate energies toward your school work and squat routines.
When you are ready, talk to him. He will be willing and only good things will come of it. First, you really need to calm down. Like a whole fucking lot. And you will, just with time.
Remind yourself all of these things, all of the time, until you actually begin to believe them. ♦
Fall is right around the corner, I think for Halloween I’ll dress up as a cereal killer…pun intended. —Isabella Acosta.
Alyson
It’s hard to believe that a world that thrives completely on creativity and the arts exists unless you are living in it. It’s even harder to be happily creative once you have lived in it and are then sucked away from it (until next summer, I guess). Even god doesn’t kick people out of heaven, right? Read More »
Lilly
I’m still about two weeks out from surgery, but I am already trying to begin the act of healing. I’m eating better, stretching more, drinking enough water. I’m stacking heavier weight on my shoulders and pulling kilometer after kilometer on an old rowing machine in the school gym. Read More »
Steffany
I’m not sure what self-care means. I’m not even sure if I’m doing it right. However, since starting college, I’ve been going out of my way to put myself first. I used to do everything for my friends: I was a shoulder to cry on or someone to edit your school papers. I’m no longer doing any of that. As of now, I am my own biggest concern, and while I feel selfish at times, it feels oh so good. Oftentimes, black women are made to believe that we have to be superhuman, but I’m not going to carry the burdens of others on my back when they don’t bother to do the same for me. 
Juggling schoolwork and life has been OK, but mixing in things I enjoy makes life easier. I’m reading Grace Jones’ autobiography. It’s excellent and wild; she’s lived an extraordinary life. I’ve also been watching all my British dramas and BBC documentaries. I binge watched Whitechapel: shoutout to DI Chandler, DS Miles, and Ed Buchan. I’m waiting for Endeavour to come back. Last season, Detective Constable Morse had a black boo thing. She’s a nurse but she mainly looks after him, which lends itself to boring storylines. I mean, this woman is a black nurse in Oxford during the ’60s and the best they can see for her character is someone to buy him a scarf and make him tea? I think not. I hope they kick it up a notch this season. 
I barely ever cook, but I made myself a nice steak with sauteed onions the other night. I deserve it! I’ve also been trying to perfect my twistouts. Zadie Smith is coming to my college tonight and I don’t want my hair flying all over my head when she goes to sign my books. I seem to be the only person at my school excited about it! I heard she’s writing screenplays, but I’d love if she did a short story collection. I admire writers so much for what they do. It seems so alien to me—to want to be a writer—which is weird, because aren’t I one? I don’t feel as if I can call myself one. Whereas, all the journalism and creative writing majors do so here. They call themselves writers with such pride. I don’t talk about my writing at all in my day-to-day life. I can’t quite pinpoint why that is. ♦
Thahabu
I’ve been thinking about the past: advice my dad has given me; sketchy adventures with my friends Leah and Madison; and old favorite movies. I rewatched She’s Gotta Have It with a friend this weekend. I was probably 14 when I first saw it, and still too innocent to understand the overall theme and many innuendos. Watching it now, I noticed how much I can relate to Nola Darling, the carefree protagonist. 
Nola pretty much lives as she likes and does what she wants. She doesn’t think there’s anything wrong with her and actually sees her actions and pretty sexual lifestyle as what keeps her sane. “Some people call me a freak…I don’t believe in it,” she says. But later in the movie, one of her lovers convinces her that she’s sick and needs to see a therapist to change her “unhealthy” habits. Nola goes to a therapist. She and the professional decide she is not, in fact, sick. Despite this, Nola still tries to change herself to please another of her lovers. She learns that no matter how much people ostracize her, she cannot be what anyone else wants her to be, and she loves it. 
When I was 13 and 14, and again at 16 and 18, I was at my happiest. I was Nola Darling at the end of She’s Gotta Have It (minus her habit). For the past year, I’ve been trying to figure out why I haven’t been able to feel a semblance of that self-assurance and contentedness. After revisiting that film I know why. I’ve been shaping my life around other people, carving out pieces of myself to better fit them, and to have them fit me. But the people I’ve chosen have not done the same for me. 
I have my flaws, and I’ve definitely improved myself and calmed myself down since high school. But it’s reached the point where I quiet myself down and make myself smaller so that my existence doesn’t stir up any trouble—as it has in the past. Who I am is OK to a few, and I know who my friends are. But the school I attend is different than back home. Many of the students here look at me like I’m crazy; they’re not used to seeing a black girl who likes Benjamin Booker just as much as she loves Beyoncé. I’ve been attacked for voicing my opinion and disagreeing with some not so intersectional views. Just as Nola’s lover did in She’s Gotta Have It, this school has tried to paint me as in need of fixing or changing. I’d almost agree with them if I didn’t have such wonderful friends who love me and check me if I’m out of line.
Another reason I haven’t been so nice to myself lately is due to new romantic experiences. The people I find attractive are also attracted to me and I find it shocking. I always knew I was beautiful to myself; I’m accustomed to simply being enough for me. Someone I’m actually interested in admitting they’re attracted to me another adds pressure, because then I think about why they want me and begin to overanalyze. I start to question it, like maybe they’re just trying to trick me or I know they keep wanting to hookup but do they actually like seeing me naked? This feeling is new and overwhelming and agonizing. I become so self-critical that I start making little changes to myself just to make sure I don’t turn them off, even though they say I’m more than enough.
I never used to think of myself as having to be enough for someone else. That requires compromise, compromise requires change, and I’m not sure if I’m ready to make any changes to myself. At this moment, I feel too young and free to change for someone who shows interest in me. I’ve already morphed myself to fit the crevices of this institution. I don’t want to shrink myself anymore. I’m tired of trying to avoid trouble for existing. I’m not weird, radical, or off. I’m perfect and beautiful. Like Nola Darling, I’m no freak. ♦
Britney
I am sick. What is it like to be cared for when you are sick? Once I knew but not now, and sometimes, it feels like not ever again. I have no real, consistent source of warmth in my life. I want to laugh because it is so sad. 
If I could leave my body, I would do it just to look myself in the eyes and say, “You must be the saddest person in the world. I feel for you with all my heart.”
Yesterday I stood on the edge and then cried from sheer terror on the 3 train. The possibility of suddenly not existing in the evening of the same day is enough to break anyone down. 
Am I supposed to be alone? Am I supposed to be alone?
I can’t do it! I can’t do it alone! Not all alone! Not all alone!
If I am this dependent maybe it is best. But maybe I am wrong and countless other humans are this way and lots of people just do their best to hide it because vulnerability is so ugly to them. I love its ugliness so much that I wear it daily. 
You can see how my emotions change throughout most of my pieces of writing—especially this—and I love it because it is the only way to say to people, “Do you believe me now? My emotions are carried on the wind. I can’t do much to stop them.” I can though. I just never have much motivation unless they are destroying me. I do not want to pretend to be someone else for the benefit of others. 
I am home sick and I can hear the workers in the next building sawing and hammering behind the thick black tarp, Death draping itself over red brick. The faded Latin music and caustic metallic clanging are the most familiar thing in this neighborhood to me. 
We are reading Oedipus Rex in my English seminar class. I sat on the train yesterday with my copy and said to myself, “What a sad man. He must have the most tragic life of anyone who ever lived.” I wonder how many people have looked at me and thought the same. ♦
Simone
I wholeheartedly believe that this summer, I have successfully converted my all-consuming obsession with real life teenage boys into an impersonal, but equally obsessive, sexually-charged worship of celebrities. Of course this is caused only by my over-consumption of popular culture, but its results are healthy. They have turned me into a more driven, less distracted, and happier person. As a proud Scorpio, my passionate nature cannot be suppressed, but my emotions can be!
If I can maintain my fascination with these perfectly marketed faces in far off lands, faces I will never awkwardly encounter in a school hallway, or have to rack up the guts to make eye contact with at a party, then I am safe. Safe from inklings of real feeling, which in turn makes me safe from possible vulnerability, happiness, sadness, and rejection. As anyone who is 16 knows, even the possibility of being rejected is heartbreaking.
In the rare event that a real life teenage boy and I were to mutually like each other very much, and be involved in an ideal teen relationship, that would require a lot of time, and worse, effort. Time and effort? Two things I am unwilling to give.
Most likely, I will return to school in a week and fall in love with at least one real life teenage boy in every class. I will imagine marrying him in a lavish ceremony at a medieval castle with pale, pink-themed decor. I remain optimistic that none of this will happen. ♦
Britney
I don’t remember the exact date and time; it could’ve been when my mother died (12:13 A.M., November 26, 2014), it could’ve been when I realized once and for all I’d spent years falling in love with the wrong person and it had finally come to bite me (sometime in June 2015), it could’ve been right before I went to the hospital again, it could’ve been a gradual amble to my demise in which I lost bits and pieces of myself and didn’t realize until I came face to face with the void. All that matters is: I died. (“In order to be reborn, one must first die.”)
There are pieces of my past life haunting all the rooms that I myself have come to haunt in my 16th year—heart shaped boxes, pictures taken with disposable cameras from years past, old cramped handwriting, dirty backpacks, dog-eared books that I don’t remember owning. I hear songs and remember who I used to be. I don’t miss my old self. 
“I have been to hell and back.
Lilly
My friends worry a lot about their “where”s. “Everyone wants to go to California for college, but that’s way too far away for me,” one tells me. “I was thinking about the East Coast, maybe Johns Hopkins or American, but I couldn’t do that to my family,” another says. And that’s fine. 
I won’t lie—I’ve wondered time after time, wouldn’t I be just fine going to the university in my own hometown? It would be easier. I know my way around, I’d never have to miss my favorite places and local events, I could see my family, and friends who stayed in town, as often as I wanted. This place has been my home for almost 17 years and there’s a reason I’ve never questioned it.
At least not until recently. Not until I went to Ireland last summer and realized that there was nowhere in my hometown that could take my breath away anymore. Not until one of my friends spent a semester studying abroad in Sweden and came back with tall tales of Champions League watching parties and Swedish puns and frustrating classes. Not until I found that maybe I know my way around this place a little too well. And now I can’t help but wonder, would I really even have a chance at being happy here for another four years or more?
I feel guilty sometimes for not being satisfied at the thought of staying here. Almost everyone I know assures me that they’d be fine with it, even if it wouldn’t be their first choice. To me it feels like the easy way out. Four years of college, maybe grad school, find a job, live my life.
But I don’t want to settle. I guess my problem now is that I know where I am, but not where I’m going. I just know it’s not here. ♦
Alyson
Last night, as on many nights, I lay in bed slightly panicked by the dark, thinking. I don’t know if it is thinking as much as it is making myself really angry, but I wake up and keep working hard (or start working harder). I get angry because I don’t live in a major city, because I don’t attend a school like Crossroads, like most of my camp friends do. 
I know life is what I make it, I know, I know, I know, I know. But sometimes, I have moments in which I can feel myself existing alone in my room, allowing the cold wind of truth to pass through me: I can work two times harder, make five times as much work, but it will only be noticed half as much. ♦
Thahabu
A few Sundays ago, my friend took me to a Jazmine Sullivan concert in Central Park. It was obviously fantastic because Jazmine Sullivan is fantastic, but she started singing this song called “Masterpiece” from her latest album. The song is about learning to love your body for what it is and celebrating every aspect of it. As I watched her sashay and belt her way around the stage I couldn’t help but think about my own self-esteem and the roller coaster I’ve put it through these past eight years. 
I have severe scoliosis which means my spine is shaped like an S. The curve was causing my ribcage to lean on my lungs, so at the age of 14 I had to get surgery to decrease the curve. Before the surgery, I was just a depressed pre-teen, who wondered why she had to have this terrible deformity that caused her peers to make fun of her, and prompted tiny children to ask their moms, “What’s wrong with her?” as I walked by. 
Growing up was rough. However, when I turned 13 (I was listening to a lot of Jeffree Star and Christina Aguilera), I straight up decided that if nobody thought I was pretty, I’d think I’m pretty (that’s exactly how I said it inside my head that day). And so that’s how it was from then on. I adopted this new Fuck You attitude, learned to ignore the stares and bullies, and told myself I was beautiful every chance I got. I was feeling great that year. I also found out that I’d be having my surgery that summer, and I assumed that my confidence would skyrocket to a whole new universe. My spine would be straighter, therefore I’d be even more “beautiful” on the outside and everybody would see it. I wouldn’t have to lie to myself about how I pretty was or “fake it till I made it,” because I’d truly be “pretty.” 
I was wrong as hell. After enduring excruciating surgeries, my spine was less curved, although still noticeably crooked. My breathing became so much better, but I had become so used to loving my super deformed body, that when I finally went home after my surgery and looked in the mirror I was frightened. I couldn’t recognize the body or person in my reflection, it made absolutely no sense. Everyone around me was telling me how great I looked but I couldn’t see it; it wasn’t mine, it wasn’t the body I had known for 14 years of my life, and that fucked me all the way up. I entered high school depressed as ever and had trouble making new friends. I wanted to stick to things that felt familiar; to get back to how life was before the surgery. I hung out with my middle school friends and now I even realize that I started wearing a blue weave again to subconsciously channel my younger self. The confidence I had worked so hard on building had dissipated.
Those next two years were hell, I lashed out at friends and hooked up with boys I didn’t even like because I thought that’s what made me a normal teenager. I looked more normal but didn’t feel it. I overcompensated by pretending to be this caricature of a “normal” American teen. It wasn’t until my junior year when I made new friends who were more focused on their school work and going to college, that I finally recognized my self worth. I saw that I was deserving of attention and love, not only from friends but more importantly, myself. My new pals and I would go out for lunch and blast One Direction on the car ride over, I’m not even a huge fan of the band, but in those moments I thought, this is what I’m supposed to be doing, this is what being 16 is about, not worrying about back pain and how strange I am, but sitting here singing along to some boy band on the way to Subway. I redirected my time toward making sure I’d be able to get into college. My grades improved dramatically, I opened up more, took a break from toxic friends, and joined clubs. I felt unstoppable and my confidence rebooted itself. 
I was high on my own self love, but at 19, at this Jazmine Sullivan concert, my fake it ’til you make it juice has worn off and I’m left with the shallow ass kiddie pool that is my self worth. I’m not sure how this happened. It could be because everything is going well for me right now: I’m entering my sophomore year of college with good grades, I’m having sex I actually enjoy, and I’m writing more. I should be ecstatic and loving life! Maybe I think so poorly of myself that I feel like I don’t deserve this? I’m not satisfied with myself. Sure, I’ve come a long way from wearing back braces and taking Percocet for pain, but I still hate my scars and deformed spine. I feel out of place in my own body and undeserving of all the love I’ve been receiving. I want to get back to being 13 and fearless, not 19 and unsure of myself. ♦
Simone
This summer, I was a camp counselor. I decided to become a camp counselor a week before camp started, so naturally I was very confused, and sometimes felt out of place. I was nervous kids would judge my Nae Nae the way other teenagers do. As it turns out, middle schoolers graders are amused by me. Maybe it’s only because of my vast Diary of a Wimpy Kid knowledge, or exciting high school stories, but it’s admiration nonetheless. Camp counselling is more similar to Wet Hot American Summer than paying parents would like, but it’s best that way.
I got my braces off. I expected this moment to change me forever. To look in a mirror, and see a completely new, glo’d up face, and know that my life would never be the same. A braceless Simone would still be clumsy and fun, but in a sexy way. She would look 21, and have her way with 21-year-old men. But Simone is still not that, in fact, I’m the opposite of that. Nothing has really changed, my teeth are just straight. Post-removal, I spent a week forgetting I didn’t have braces anymore and licking my teeth. Then, I didn’t really care or remember what I had gone through for 18 months. Self-confidence requires more than pliers, I guess.
Five weeks later, I lost my retainer.
I went to my grandma’s house for the longest I’ve ever been, with my dad and brother. And I realized, not only do I really love my dad, but also my brother. He was my best friend this summer.
I went to the Mac DeMarco show I’d been anticipating for months. I was so close to the stage, and everyone wanted my spot. Boys pushed their way to the front. They stopped to stand right behind my friends, and I thought to myself, This is the closest I’ve ever been to a boy. Wow. Everyone was sweaty, some were shirtless, and a lot of unintentional grinding ensued. But then, the boys pushed in front of us, and I realized the only good man left in this word is McBriare Samuel Lanyon DeMarco, so I jumped on stage, gave him the plastic Lisa Simpson head I’d brought for him, and kissed him on the cheek. I dove off stage and ran to get water. I was shaking, and could barely stand because residual marijuana smoke and touching your idol have mystifying powers, especially when combined.
I gained seven pounds, and none of my summer clothes fit anymore. That made me kind of sad, so I started eating more healthily, and lost eight. As I’m learning, losing weight doesn’t really change how you feel about yourself. Well, besides how well your clothing fits. (I did miss my jorts for a brief time.)
I didn’t sneak out every night. I didn’t make any new friends. I didn’t travel anywhere exciting, I didn’t even get on a plane. I didn’t have a summer fling. I didn’t even finish a show on Netflix. But, I had a good summer. A relaxing, and calm, and rejuvenating summer. Although I’m not looking forward to my inevitable return to chaotic high school bullshit, I’m not dreading it. I’m ready. I’m an improved, albeit currently retainer-less, Simone.
As of last night, summer is over. I’ll miss it. ♦
Thahabu
“You forgot about me?” a 24-year-old man with a child asked me over the phone. I hadn’t talked to him for a week after giving him my number. I was walking through the park when we met. He was pushing two babies in swings and waved what I thought was an innocent hello. I smiled back, speeding my way to the library. The next thing I heard was, “Get that slim, get that!” I tried to rationalize as I always do in these situations, he can’t be talking about me. The man rushed after me, leaving the kids in the swings for his friend to watch. He began shouting to get my attention but I ignored him, already aware of what was going on. I turned around to see how close he was to me: close enough. I’m not new to this so I quickly went through the motions in my head, any man that will leave his kids to follow me out of a park is the type of man who’ll get angry and hurt me if I don’t respond to him. So I stopped, and performed the routine I always do when men bother me on the street. I forced a smile and complied. 
“Why was you ignoring me when I was calling you?” There was a sense possesiveness in his voice. 
“Oh, um, I’m kinda in a rush” I replied. 
He told me his name which I do not remember, and kept telling me how I need to respond when someone’s talking to me. I just nodded my head. He asked for my number and I gave it to him my real number, because I knew what was coming: He called it right in front of me to make sure it was mine. 
This happens so often that I have categories for types of street harassers, and I could tell he was the, “Let me call your phone right now so I know you ain’t tryna play me” type. Had it been the wrong number, if my phone didn’t ring when he called, my safety would’ve been compromised, my body and personal space would’ve been violated, and I’d be called a bitch like I have been in the past. And now here I am, speechless, because this stranger has the nerve to call me saying, “You forgot about me,” as if I owe him something for pressuring me into giving him my number. 
“No,” I said, before hanging up and blocking him like should’ve done a week ago.
In those moments I practically reacted the same as I would to a police officer stopping me for no reason. I assessed the situation, realized he had much more power and strength than me, and did as he said I should to protect my life. Whenever I tell these kinds of stories to my male friends—specifically my black male friends—they tell me I’m overreacting. It’s sad. How can someone who’s used to being followed around by strange white men in uniforms tell me, a black woman, that being followed around and harassed by strange men isn’t that big of a deal? 
They don’t understand how prevalent and violent is is. That’s why I need black feminism. Because the feeling of fear that rushes through my spine every time a cop approaches me is the same feeling I get whenever a man follows me home or asks me “Why?” when I refuse to give him my number. Just like cops think they’re entitled to my body and time when they tell me to step aside and give them my name, these men who approach me, refuse to take my “No,” and demand that I explain why I don’t wanna hang with them. They show the same bravado as a power-hungry police officer. What’s not to get? The same men who complain about store clerks following them around look me dead in the face when they tell me being followed home by men who ‘like’ me should be taken as a compliment. It’s frightening. ♦
Alyson
I’m writing in my diary, not a journal (I am trying to make myself comfortable with the word “diary”) in first period, regular U.S. History. I write during that class almost every day. It works well because no one sits behind me, and most of what we are learning was covered in the President’s Day presentations I had every year in elementary school; a crash course on pilgrims, Native Americans, and presidents. 
Today, there is someone sitting behind me, because she wants to take notes with her friend in the very back row of desks. Except they are not taking notes. One is telling the other how she is going to her boyfriend’s house after the football game tonight, because his parents are gone for the weekend. It’s a scenario I have only heard in ’80s movies. 
Giggle giggle giggle. Her friend laughs that all-knowing laugh. They know a lot of boys, they are kind of popular. Popular like all the other blonde girls who wear striped T-shirt dresses and booties, and put dark streaks in their light hair. 
As much as I feel uncomfortable about hearing girls my age expend all of their words on how they plan to get hook-ups, I start to self-evaluate. 
I remember, like, 50 years ago when I watched Prom with my mom. She thought it was sweet, but I thought it was exciting. I was totally under the impression that people were going to be such adults in high school, and that I would most definitely be asked to a dance. Now I am dipping my toe in the dull waters of junior year where the only guys who might ever ask me to anything are boys who I was nice to, while the others stay in the platonic playpen.
And it’s starting to wear on me. 
Am I listening to them because I might want to know…how? How to get boys to like me, despite the fact that I have never colored my hair and refuse to wear those T-shirt-dress hybrids? 
God, of course not.
Maybe. ♦
Steffany
My first week in college has been nothing short of eventful, and to add insult to injury, I am in deep infatuation. It all started on the second night of school. Far away from the watchful eyes of their parents, many of the freshmen, me included, decided to turn up. We’d all been friends with the upperclassmen, and there was a party happening in their campus apartments. Apartments are living spaces reserved for older students, who decided to stick it out; for that you get a kitchen area although you’re too broke to afford food to cook.
Anyway, we’re all gathered around this little kitchen table. There’s pettiness aplenty with people dividing into cliques, and rationing out a 40 oz beer amongst themselves. I, not being in the clique, could not partake of a shot of beer and pretend that I was drunk. Instead, I make conversation with the guy next to me. He’s a sophomore, but he’s my age—one of the overachieving types who stayed close to home at the urging of his parents, and lost his mind with all the freedom to which he gained access. But he doesn’t matter. Who matters much more, is his attractive friend, we’ll call him Al. Al is tall and lanky, brimming with this unspoken confidence, with an incredibly dry and endearing demeanor. I am in love. The girls at the party all noticed him, but I was the one hanging out with him. 
Things were kinda fuzzy because I had decided to do things my parents had warned me against. Nonetheless, he chatted me up, and took care of me. It was like I was the only person who mattered, but that may have been the drugs. I mean, maybe that’s why I’m idealizing him in the first place. That whole night was as if I was in the middle of one of Spike Lee’s famous dolly shots. You know the scene in Crooklyn where Troy gets high and floats through Brooklyn? That was me. And all the guilt I felt for having partaken in the first place melted away.
He saw me a day or two later and went out of his way to say hi. It didn’t fully click and I kinda blew him off. It was the third hello that made me infatuated. Maybe I’m being silly, and he just felt bad for the freshman who couldn’t hang. Either way, I am crushing so hard. It’s conflicting: Looking for him on campus like I’m in some one-sided game of hide and seek makes the day more fun. My friends going, “I SEEN YOUR BOO, GIRL!” while we walk to class is funny. It’s a schoolgirl crush, but I’ll also be pretty upset if I don’t get over my nerves and talk to him. 
Am I pretty enough? Interesting enough? Am I his type? I hate being hampered by those questions because they undermine the self-confidence I’ve worked so hard to build. As of now, I can only love myself for who I am and hope Al sees something in me. Ugh, that sounds so desperate. But what is a girl to do? I’m literally smiling as I type this, thinking about the possibility of our having a relationship. This makes me feel silly but I also like the butterflies in my stomach when we’re in the dining hall and he looks in my direction. ♦
Britney
Breakfast: Melon that reminds me of Toulouse, café au lait, 75 milligrams of Zoloft, juice. I read a Susan Sontag essay and try to place the source of the dense foreboding that is too big for my body before realizing: Today is the last day before school starts. My first day of junior year. 
I want to be worth it. I repeat: I want to be worth it. I want to do incredibly well in school and be the type of person who spends a considerable amount of time focused on academics, and dedicate part of each day to making art and writing. I want to be organized and content and feel as if I am making the most of myself. 
I’ve cut my hair even shorter than before. I am growing to hate spending time worrying about my physical self, worrying about how I look and how others perceive me. 
I get two new Salvador Dalí posters for my room—Crucifixion and The Meditative Rose. I buy a ticket to the Whitney; my favorite thing is going to the museums I love most by myself. I try to make myself happy for once in my life. I want to be good to myself and to others. 
In a dream that I wake up from doused in perspiration, I have died without initially realizing it; it is perhaps the most jarring dream I have ever had, because my will to live has never been stronger, and has never felt more necessary. I do not have enough happiness but I am constantly reaching for positivity. ♦
Simone
Things That Happened During my First Week of Junior Year:
1. I jam packed my schedule, ridding myself of lunch period, and thus, the opportunity to buy lunch off campus. My wallet, and that of my father, rejoiced. I’ve discovered the magic of smashed up, room temperature peanut butter and jelly sandwiches eaten during gym class.
2. I survived the first week with my mom as my English teacher. In class it was not that bad; she laughed at all my jokes and didn’t make me feel like an idiot.
2a. At home, it was horrible. Twice in one week she preemptively grounded me until I finished all the “work she knew I had.”
2ai. As a result, in addition to the guilt I feel in cancelling babysitting jobs, I missed the first “lituation” of the school year. I felt very “salty,” because my night, which lasted until 4:32 AM, and consisted only of homework and crying babies, was “buns.”
3. A boy told me I was glo’ing up. I cherished the moment. I will forever. 
4. I ruined a great platonic relationship with a boy by doing the single most awkward thing you can do in a great platonic relationship with a boy, and worse yet, the day before school started.
4a. We have exchanged an estimated five words since.
4b. I hope we were not acting upon actual feelings because emotional attachment is a distraction from my study and sleep schedule.
5. My stomach has entered a perpetual state of what I can only describe as “butterflies,” as I nervously flit from class to class, thinking of all the work I have, people I must impress, and whether I am contracting tetanus from re-exposure to my school building. It lingers as I return home and procrastinate until the late hours of the night, forgetting to eat and drink water and calm down as I dwell in my stress. I go to sleep, wake up, and repeat the same routine on yet another day.
6. I cried a lot, almost every night. Pressure, and people, and petty high school bullshit are so annoying. I miss summer.
6a. For any of you who need the recommendation, I’ve found “When You’re Gone” by the Cranberries is a very good song to cry to. ♦
Marah
My only goal right now is to find dignity, which I have lost in my own homeland. I have, therefore, decided to travel. We heard that following the global interest in the story of the little Syrian boy who drowned, some European countries decided to send ships to safely transfer Syrians from Turkey to Europe for free. This news motivated me, and I raised the subject with my mother, who completely rejected the idea. She knows that no matter how we do it, it will cost us a lot of money. Additionally, she has heard many stories about poor conditions in the refugee camps in Turkey; she does not want us—if we fail for any reason to get on one of these ships—to end up living in one of them.
My mother’s concerns have not changed my mind, and after the recent explosions in Damascus, I am more convinced than ever that leaving is my only hope. The explosions and the severe security measures that followed turned life in the capital into hell.
The situation is deteriorating day after day. Everybody is exhausted and fed up. A few days ago, there was a huge explosion close to where we live. None of us was injured, but my mother, who was at work when it occurred, was frightened for our lives.
I have a surprise for you: I got officially engaged to the man I mentioned to you. He is my only way to get out of here and start a new life. The engagement is intended as a time to get to know each other and learn if we are a good match to start a family together. When I talk to him, I sometimes feel that I am talking to a friend, and sometimes like I am talking to a brother, or even a father. The whole thing is very recent, but I have a feeling that things will work out between us.
I went to apply for a passport and I was shocked at the number of people also applying. I waited from 8 AM until 4 PM, and it was still not my turn. It seemed like every Syrian was planning to leave, or, more accurately, was planning to escape. I do not blame them—life here is unbearable. Maybe people rushed to apply for passports when they heard about the European ships. We do not know how credible the news is, but people are devastated and looking for a way out.
My mother refuses to take any action because she is worried that the whole story might be a rumor and she does not want us to take any risks. She does not want to leave with me, so I have found my own way out: I will marry someone who can help. I cannot stop thinking of how crowded the immigration center was. Syria is losing its citizens and turning into a deserted country. Everyone is searching for the dignity that Syrians asked for at the beginning of the revolution, but we received more humiliation instead.
It is very strange how life has stripped us of our independent will, and is now leading us the way it wants—we make decisions we never imagined we could make, and take roads we never imagined we could take. The future does not scare me anymore, because there is nothing worse than where I am right now. I must take risks with the hope that I might save myself, my family and my future. ♦
Marah’s diary is produced in collaboration with Syria Deeply, a digital news outlet covering the Syrian crisis. It was translated from the Arabic by Mais Istanbelli.
Lilly
Time goes on. My friends from other parts of the U.S. complain about starting school; I grind my teeth into my second month of it. I panic over a calculus test at midnight and ace it the next morning. My college counselor tells me that 12 other people in my class are applying to one of my top choice universities, and I wonder helplessly what that means for my chances. With club soccer out of the picture, everything is about school and college applications and The Future, and sometimes I can’t believe that I once thought I could handle both school and soccer this semester. I don’t know how our athletes do it.
Time goes on. I get my MRI done; the technician on the evening shift is a gruff sort of guy who is impossibly careful with me as he settles my ankle into a foam pocket and tells me not to move, not even to wiggle my toes. He tells me that I won’t feel anything and gives me a pair of headphones to counteract the ominous clunking noises that the huge cylindrical machine makes as it scans my lower body. Half an hour later I’m wobbling out of the clinic with tingling legs—from the lengthy stillness or the changing magnetic fields?—and a vague hope that in a few days, maybe, I’ll be out of the air cast for good.
Time goes on. I’ll be seeing Purity Ring live soon, taping up my wristband and melding with the crowd. The last show I went to at this venue was flashy and wild with enough bass to make my stomach clench and everyone in attendance feel that much more alive. For the last song I joined hands with two people I didn’t know and whirled with the masses, made confident by anonymity. Will it be the same this year? 
Time goes on. Maybe I only feel a little empty, but it’s a lot of the time. ♦
Britney
This school year feels different. Last week one of my very best friends and I saw L7; I met Donita Sparks afterwards, in the bar while I was looking for my lost phone. It felt like a still from the ’70s, when an aspiring groupie finally meets her idol. It was a tender moment drenched in sweat and blue eyeliner. I stood in awe afterwards on a street corner with my friend as she smoked and showed me the pick that Donita gave her. “I can’t believe she touched me,” she said, her eyes widening with so much admiration that my heart almost burst. “I’ll never forget this. I’m never washing my hand.” 
I go through entire days happy—this is not normal for me. I don’t get tired. I smile all the time and I kiss my friends on the cheek when I see them and I look forward to things. I like all of my classes. I answer questions and perk up when my name is called and take extensive notes on everything the teacher says. My conversations are no longer awkward, I compliment random people in the hallways, and I talk to the seniors. I do not cry when I remember that they will be gone next year and I will be taking their place; I have learned to appreciate the present. It is a gift. I have no recollection of what it is like to be depressed from the time I wake up to the time I struggle to go to sleep. I do not feel normal, and for once in my life, this is a very, very good thing. ♦
Steffany
As part of my work study, I sit in a museum shop for five hours. I thought I had hit the jackpot—taking up a job that required very little actual work. I was wrong. I mean, I should be counting my blessings, but when there’s nothing to do five hours is a long stretch. There’s very little to sell outside of overpriced trinkets and our target demographic seems to be artsy, rich, white people. However, a closer look reveals that these people aren’t very artsy after all, and despite being rich, they’re not willing to part with $200 for an “African” rug. Any textile in the store that uses a lot of color is pegged as African, as if that drives up the market value. I imagine these people want to seem cultured because they can mention their African baskets and such at the next dinner party. We don’t get many visitors and I think the selection of art is mediocre. I watched a performance art piece in tribute to Eric Garner that felt disingenuous. Upstairs are run of the mill works, Rothko, Albers, and the like.
An exciting part of my week was seeing some rappers perform at my school. The beats were sick, but when I went on SoundCloud, it was like the feeling and sound in that little heat filled basement-like room couldn’t be replicated online. Between dabbing and whipping, I decided to embark on a journey to make my own music. I would like to get some music equipment when I come by some money. In the meantime, I’ve been teaching myself virtual DJ. My only issue is that, as a DJ, I want to play the music I want to hear. Nobody in the club wants to hear Cherrelle. I mean, I know it isn’t the ’80s, but if I remixed it maybe? I’ve been really looking to Kindness, the musician Adam Bainbridge, whose mixes incorporate the old and the new in fresh ways. He’s also kind of cute. 
I grew up around music and I’ve been dying to make some of my own. So here’s to ditching self doubt and moving forward in pursuing our dreams, no matter how big or small. ♦
Marah
Damascus is a city to love. Everyone who has visited or lived in this city has fallen for her. Songs and poetry have been written about and for her. But the almost-five-year war has damaged her—all we are thinking of now is how to leave her.
The pain and the blood that we experience every day exhausts us. Even my mother, the wise and strong woman who has overcome so much, is becoming weak. She recently decided that my brother should immigrate to Europe as a refugee with one of our relatives so that he might one day apply for family reunion papers to help us get out of this hell.
She knew how hard and dangerous the journey was, and she knew that he was still a 12-year-old boy, but she had run out of options. She got him a passport and started planning his trip, but she backed out at the very last moment. She realized that she was sacrificing him for the sake of the rest of us, and saw that it was not fair. Many families are sending their kids into the unknown with the hope that they might one day help the rest of the family get out.
People are not only fleeing to Europe—internal displacement has brought many new souls to Damascus. They suffer from such extreme poverty and poor living conditions that they cannot afford to send their children to school because the family unit is dependent on all its members for survival. I cannot imagine what kind of future is in store for Syria.
As for me, I work all day long, and in a month, I will return to my studies. I still have hope that one day I will realize my dreams, but I know that this will never happen here. I cannot achieve anything here, and I cannot enjoy anything either. I don’t even enjoy the company of my friends anymore. Everything has become void of meaning. There is only one thing left: my family. They are my strength when I am surrounded by nothing but darkness.
I want to leave so that I can help my family, but my mother rejects the idea unless I go to Switzerland, where my aunt lives. I don’t want to proceed with my plans without my mom’ s approval, because if I leave, I don’t know if I will ever see her again because death has become our daily companion in Syria. I am lost and scattered. I don’t know what to do. I cannot make a decision that might lead to me losing my family. ♦
Marah’s diary is produced in collaboration with Syria Deeply, a digital news outlet covering the Syrian crisis. It was translated from the Arabic by Mais Istanbelli.
Alyson
There’s something I do to myself when I have really landed at the bottom of the pit. I ask myself the rhetorical question, like a disciplinarian parent, What would my _____ self think of me now? I didn’t realize how mean it was until last week at the doctor’s office. A wellness-check. The scale.
What would my ana-self think of me now?
That’s the question that does me in. The answer hits like a spanking.
My grip slips in pre-calculus, just like every time I have attempted a pull-up. When did this begin?
What would my “smartest in the class” elementary school self think of me now?
God, everyone thought I was so smart. But now every other number might as well be a question mark and I don’t want to “ask my neighbor” because I can practically see his ego eating my dependency up. 
I wonder if someday I will ask myself, What would my high school self think of me now? ♦
Simone
I’m willing to accept the ever-changing texture of my hair. I’m aware that even as child, with curly mixed hair, my tresses never looked the same two days in a row. I’m aware that once you bleach your hair, it is never the same. I’m aware that unless I decide to cut off all my hair and embrace wigs for the next five years, I will spend this time covering up roots with various dyes, only to have them wash out after a few weeks and be left with the problem I began with initially. I’m aware that I’m only so paranoid about the appearance of my hair because society has trained me to believe, that as a woman—and more specifically a teenage girl—my value is almost wholly dependent upon how many people want to bone me, and that this is in part determined by the state of my hair. But I’m aware that ultimately, there are more pressing matters to fret about than my hair being frizzy, or having overgrown roots. For example, the melting of the polar ice caps, and the popularity of Donald Trump as a political figure.
I’m willing to accept newfound stresses and heavy workloads. I’m aware that my junior year of high school will likely be my most challenging and strenuous. I’m aware that I must allocate appropriate and realistic amounts of time to completing my work. I’m aware that I will have to better my study habits, because from this point onwards it seems, my high school career will entail a severe amount of testing. I’m aware that I am entering the difficult phase of my life in which my self-worth depends entirely on college acceptances and fractions gained out of 2,400. But I’m also aware that my self-worth does not depend entirely on these things. I will do my best to remain creative, and confident, and content with my state of being.
I’m willing to accept the social politics of high school, and the fact that my place in them is about as prominent as that of a mayor in small town in Wyoming. I’m aware that if I want to regularly be admitted into parties, gain loyal freshman Instagram followers, and kiss cute boys, I will have to change my personal priorities, spending more time on my physical appearance, crafting more intricate lies to tell my parents, and possibly abandoning a few outlying friends. I’m aware that some of my closest allies have chosen this path and—from Snapchat stories and morning-after texts—seem happy with it. But, I’m aware that the Simone from two months ago, and even two days ago, wouldn’t sell herself short for a few hours of forgetful fun every weekend. She wouldn’t even consider it.
I’m aware that there will be nights spent home alone when I wish I could be another girl, holding a Red Solo Cup and yelling at her friends to get their shit together. I’m aware that some nights this girl will be. She’s been let into the party, and made some younger underclassmen hopeful for the stories of their social lives to come. She’s even kissed a cute boy. But will she really be any happier, or more confident? Will her hair look better? Will her readiness for the SAT or ACT or AP have improved? Will she feel adequate? Will she still wish she could fit into a smaller size? Yes. She always will, even if she’s found some miracle way to keep her hair pin-straight for 24 hours, and she’s gained early admission to her dream school. She could be the most important girl in her bubble, but she’ll always think, What if I’d done this, instead of that? and Where would I be if hadn’t done any of that at all? and Am I pretty enough, or smart enough, or cool enough?
I need to be more willing to accept that perfection is unattainable. ♦
Thahabu
Light, but not mixed race, which means light skinned but not “beautiful.” My twist outs never come out right, my hair is nappy. I’m light skinned, but don’t quite resemble Tracee Ellis Ross. “You’re brave, I would never wear my hair like that,” fellow black girls say to me. 
I’m still learning to accept that I’ll never look like Zendaya or Zoë Kravitz. I’ve always been jealous of mixed girls with loose curls and faces that scream, my parents achieved the perfect ethnic mix to make the perfect human being! I want to be them: interesting and pretty, not confusing and nappy. Saying I’m black and only black disappoints people vying to hear me sing, “I’m Danish, Japanese, and black,” like a popular MJ lyric. “I’m just black,” doesn’t cut it. 
I remember being at a high school party and having this boy flirt with me. It was going well until he completely flipped the conversation, “I bet your pussy so pink.” I replied that it wasn’t, perturbed and unaware that at 15 people have preferences for the color of a girl’s vulva. He paused and stared at me with a mix of bewilderment and slight disgust, “Oh yea, you probably not mixed, I can tell from your hair.” Of course I was offended and told him off, but it was in that instant that I started to feel like a glitch, when I noticed that I may be light skinned and reap all the privileges of my light complexion, but I’d never meet the Light-Skinned Girl beauty standard. I contradict the idea that having light skin means you have long soft curls and a non-black parent, and that seems to upset people.
This aspect of my life has had a huge effect on my self esteem. Every day I battle with telling myself that I’m worthy of love. I’m attempting to come to terms with not being blessed with the “perfect” genetic makeup. I’ll never be enough, not mixed enough, not tall enough, definitely not thick enough. I’m not sure if I’ll ever be OK with that; being shaped like Thandie Newton but shorter with a slightly bigger butt, and having awkward big lips that make me look like a fish. Never beautiful, but always “cute.” 
Many of my biracial friends struggle with not looking “black enough,” while I grapple with not looking “ambiguous enough.” As a non-mixed, light-skinned girl I’m viewed as coming up short. I could almost pass for an Ideal Mixed Girl, but there’s always that one person who makes a comment about the texture of my hair or the roundness of my nose and I’m a have-not or just “aight” once again. I’m in this strange purgatory on the color scale, and I don’t like it. I’m still chasing after an idea of perfection, and frankly, it’s tiring. I’ll have to stop and look in the mirror one day. I’m just not sure if I’m ready for it. ♦
Cammy
It’s easy to say that last week was one of the worst weeks of my life. Here’s why:
My Math teacher switched my seat so I’m in a terrible group where everyone just copies from me AND my best friend in the class is practically a million miles away. This exact thing happened in my Chemistry class lab group, where one girl didn’t know which end liquid came out of a dropper.
I had a group project in English. I chose to work with this one boy thinking that we would work well together, only to find out that he’s a patronizing control freak.
I was back at my dad’s house; as usual he had something bitter to say to me.
I’ve been feeling like I’m missing out on my friends’ lives.
I scored pretty low on my SRI test.
On Friday, I got paint in my hair that doesn’t seem like it’s coming out any time soon. Haircut???
Probably the worst thing happening right now is that I’m getting over this could-have-been relationship which ended earlier this summer when the person I was into started dating someone else. Since school started, I’ve had to be around these two people, and seeing them can ruin my entire day. Issues around this have been building up all summer long, but last week, it just became too overwhelming. I can honestly say that I’ve cried at least twice a day, every day.
Just being alone for a little too long makes me feel like the world is over. Part of me is scared that I’ll never get out of this funk, but I also feel like things are maybe looking up, just a little. 
A lot of my favorite shows are starting back up.
In a recent Queer Straight Alliance leadership meeting we came up with some of the best ideas probably ever.
There’s now officially a Rookie Yearbook Four signing in San Francisco in a little over a month.
I caught up on some movies my friends have been wanting me to watch (Frances Ha and Amelie)
I’m getting good grades!
Feminist Club is starting and it’ll be so fun to hang out with all my friends.
I got all these great stickers and I’m getting new glasses soon.
I got to make a super funny video with my friends Dio and Chris for Computer class.
I guess, one of my best qualities is that even when things are bad, I know they’ll pass. This optimistic attitude has got me through a lot and I’m sure I’ll be able to put these bad feelings away soon. I’m really looking forward to that. ♦
Simone
I’m falling short.
This past weekend it was one of my best friend’s birthdays. My other friend had planned a massive gathering at her house in honor of the event. I woke up at 11 AM, energized. I showered, and thought about doing homework, but didn’t. I stared at myself in the mirror for about 30 minutes. I watched people on BuzzFeed eat Vegemite. I imagined possible scenarios which could take place later in the evening. I soon remembered I had to go to my grandpa’s birthday dinner during the day, so I put on pants. Then I stared at myself some more, because I was looking good! LIFE was good.
And then around 1 PM, I started getting cramps. For some people, cramps are annoying, but manageable. For others, they are painful, but treatable. For me, they involve excessive crying, vomiting induced by the churning organs of my lower abdomen, and questioning God’s existence. Something so normal and standard for every person with a shedding uterus, is debilitating and detrimental for me. So, I missed my grandpa’s birthday dinner. Worse than my mother’s judgement of me ( she likely assumed I’d magnified my symptoms to miss out on “How is school?” and “Do you have a boyfriend yet?” questions from extended family), was that this dinner was taking place at an Americanized Asian-fusion all-you-can-eat buffet. This establishment is a literal description of my aesthetic, but over 90 miles away from my home. I don’t know when my next opportunity to eat Kung Pao chicken tenders on a skewer will arise.
I was left home alone where I slept for four hours, and cried every time I saw someone in a wedding dress on television, because love is BEAUTIFUL. My parents returned home; although my recovery was beginning, I still could not move from the fetal position without feeling the pain of one thousand knives being driven into my lower left side by Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson.
I missed the party, and funny moments, and seeing people I don’t usually see in school, but most importantly, the group photoshoots. As mentioned earlier, I’d spent half my day sleeping, so I didn’t get any homework done either. I decided to re-watch every movie available On Demand released in 2007, but after 20 minutes of Shrek the Third, I fell asleep again.
I woke up Sunday morning, and stared at my agenda, and saw nine archaically dictated federalist papers to translate and summarize into contemporary English, a thick Spanish script to memorize for a presentation Monday, e-mails to send, a lengthy bill on a boring economic topic to write, and more opportunities to miss. It’s 5 PM now. I fell short. ♦
Marah
At Eid al-Adha, the Feast of the Sacrifice holiday, everyone is supposed to be busy getting ready, buying food, sweets and new clothes to celebrate. But people are overwhelmed by other things. 
This year, the holiday came just as schools were opening their doors for the new academic year—right when students need school supplies. Because of the war, most Syrians are unemployed and they cannot afford both occasions at the same time. 
Many families are under a lot of pressure, and that leads to stress and fighting. For many, a new backpack or a new pair of pants has become a dream.
As people suffer, others exploit the situation. Property owners have shown no mercy and rents have soared to unprecedented heights. The owner of our tiny apartment wants to double the rent. My mother’s income and my income combined can barely cover our needs, and we cannot afford our rent. For this reason, we are now looking for an even smaller place. 
My income, although small, helps a lot, so I cannot leave my job. I will be working in a showroom during Eid al-Adha. I am not happy that I will not be spending time with my family during the holiday, but the showroom job pays well, and we need every penny. However, my family will be stuck at home, because the streets are not safe—explosions and missiles are everywhere and people are too scared to leave their houses.
As for holiday gifts, we received the best present ever: no electricity or water for five days—we felt less than human. What makes things even more difficult is that, being from an opposition-controlled area, many people blame us for what is happening in the country, as if it was our fault. I am really fed up with what some people say. Often I just cannot control myself, and I explode in their faces and defend myself and all displaced people. My mother says that I should control myself, and avoid responding to such accusations, but I do not agree with her—I believe that it is my responsibility to defend myself and those like me. Additionally, the general pressure makes it very hard for me to absorb and contain such accusations. No matter how strong we are, we all have limits, and the past five years have brought me to mine. 
The worsening situation has changed me in significant ways. I am not the same person I used to be. My standards and morals have changed. I mean, look at me: I agreed to get engaged to someone that I have no feelings for, only so that he might take me out of here! I feel like I am using him and I that it is not fair. I truly do not know who I am anymore. I look at myself in the mirror and do not recognize the girl I see, so I cry and cry. ♦
Marah’s diary is produced in collaboration with Syria Deeply, a digital news outlet covering the Syrian crisis. It was translated from the Arabic by Mais Istanbelli.
Simone
I wholeheartedly believe that this summer, I have successfully converted my all-consuming obsession with real life teenage boys into an impersonal, but equally obsessive, sexually-charged worship of celebrities. Of course this is caused only by my over-consumption of popular culture, but its results are healthy. They have turned me into a more driven, less distracted, and happier person. As a proud Scorpio, my passionate nature cannot be suppressed, but my emotions can be!
If I can maintain my fascination with these perfectly marketed faces in far off lands, faces I will never awkwardly encounter in a school hallway, or have to rack up the guts to make eye contact with at a party, then I am safe. Safe from inklings of real feeling, which in turn makes me safe from possible vulnerability, happiness, sadness, and rejection. As anyone who is 16 knows, even the possibility of being rejected is heartbreaking.
In the rare event that a real life teenage boy and I were to mutually like each other very much, and be involved in an ideal teen relationship, that would require a lot of time, and worse, effort. Time and effort? Two things I am unwilling to give.
Most likely, I will return to school in a week and fall in love with at least one real life teenage boy in every class. I will imagine marrying him in a lavish ceremony at a medieval castle with pale, pink-themed decor. I remain optimistic that none of this will happen. ♦
Britney
I don’t remember the exact date and time; it could’ve been when my mother died (12:13 A.M., November 26, 2014), it could’ve been when I realized once and for all I’d spent years falling in love with the wrong person and it had finally come to bite me (sometime in June 2015), it could’ve been right before I went to the hospital again, it could’ve been a gradual amble to my demise in which I lost bits and pieces of myself and didn’t realize until I came face to face with the void. All that matters is: I died. (“In order to be reborn, one must first die.”)
There are pieces of my past life haunting all the rooms that I myself have come to haunt in my 16th year—heart shaped boxes, pictures taken with disposable cameras from years past, old cramped handwriting, dirty backpacks, dog-eared books that I don’t remember owning. I hear songs and remember who I used to be. I don’t miss my old self. 
“I have been to hell and back.
Lilly
My friends worry a lot about their “where”s. “Everyone wants to go to California for college, but that’s way too far away for me,” one tells me. “I was thinking about the East Coast, maybe Johns Hopkins or American, but I couldn’t do that to my family,” another says. And that’s fine. 
I won’t lie—I’ve wondered time after time, wouldn’t I be just fine going to the university in my own hometown? It would be easier. I know my way around, I’d never have to miss my favorite places and local events, I could see my family, and friends who stayed in town, as often as I wanted. This place has been my home for almost 17 years and there’s a reason I’ve never questioned it.
At least not until recently. Not until I went to Ireland last summer and realized that there was nowhere in my hometown that could take my breath away anymore. Not until one of my friends spent a semester studying abroad in Sweden and came back with tall tales of Champions League watching parties and Swedish puns and frustrating classes. Not until I found that maybe I know my way around this place a little too well. And now I can’t help but wonder, would I really even have a chance at being happy here for another four years or more?
I feel guilty sometimes for not being satisfied at the thought of staying here. Almost everyone I know assures me that they’d be fine with it, even if it wouldn’t be their first choice. To me it feels like the easy way out. Four years of college, maybe grad school, find a job, live my life.
But I don’t want to settle. I guess my problem now is that I know where I am, but not where I’m going. I just know it’s not here. ♦
Alyson
Last night, as on many nights, I lay in bed slightly panicked by the dark, thinking. I don’t know if it is thinking as much as it is making myself really angry, but I wake up and keep working hard (or start working harder). I get angry because I don’t live in a major city, because I don’t attend a school like Crossroads, like most of my camp friends do. 
I know life is what I make it, I know, I know, I know, I know. But sometimes, I have moments in which I can feel myself existing alone in my room, allowing the cold wind of truth to pass through me: I can work two times harder, make five times as much work, but it will only be noticed half as much. ♦
Thahabu
A few Sundays ago, my friend took me to a Jazmine Sullivan concert in Central Park. It was obviously fantastic because Jazmine Sullivan is fantastic, but she started singing this song called “Masterpiece” from her latest album. The song is about learning to love your body for what it is and celebrating every aspect of it. As I watched her sashay and belt her way around the stage I couldn’t help but think about my own self-esteem and the roller coaster I’ve put it through these past eight years. 
I have severe scoliosis which means my spine is shaped like an S. The curve was causing my ribcage to lean on my lungs, so at the age of 14 I had to get surgery to decrease the curve. Before the surgery, I was just a depressed pre-teen, who wondered why she had to have this terrible deformity that caused her peers to make fun of her, and prompted tiny children to ask their moms, “What’s wrong with her?” as I walked by. 
Growing up was rough. However, when I turned 13 (I was listening to a lot of Jeffree Star and Christina Aguilera), I straight up decided that if nobody thought I was pretty, I’d think I’m pretty (that’s exactly how I said it inside my head that day). And so that’s how it was from then on. I adopted this new Fuck You attitude, learned to ignore the stares and bullies, and told myself I was beautiful every chance I got. I was feeling great that year. I also found out that I’d be having my surgery that summer, and I assumed that my confidence would skyrocket to a whole new universe. My spine would be straighter, therefore I’d be even more “beautiful” on the outside and everybody would see it. I wouldn’t have to lie to myself about how I pretty was or “fake it till I made it,” because I’d truly be “pretty.” 
I was wrong as hell. After enduring excruciating surgeries, my spine was less curved, although still noticeably crooked. My breathing became so much better, but I had become so used to loving my super deformed body, that when I finally went home after my surgery and looked in the mirror I was frightened. I couldn’t recognize the body or person in my reflection, it made absolutely no sense. Everyone around me was telling me how great I looked but I couldn’t see it; it wasn’t mine, it wasn’t the body I had known for 14 years of my life, and that fucked me all the way up. I entered high school depressed as ever and had trouble making new friends. I wanted to stick to things that felt familiar; to get back to how life was before the surgery. I hung out with my middle school friends and now I even realize that I started wearing a blue weave again to subconsciously channel my younger self. The confidence I had worked so hard on building had dissipated.
Those next two years were hell, I lashed out at friends and hooked up with boys I didn’t even like because I thought that’s what made me a normal teenager. I looked more normal but didn’t feel it. I overcompensated by pretending to be this caricature of a “normal” American teen. It wasn’t until my junior year when I made new friends who were more focused on their school work and going to college, that I finally recognized my self worth. I saw that I was deserving of attention and love, not only from friends but more importantly, myself. My new pals and I would go out for lunch and blast One Direction on the car ride over, I’m not even a huge fan of the band, but in those moments I thought, this is what I’m supposed to be doing, this is what being 16 is about, not worrying about back pain and how strange I am, but sitting here singing along to some boy band on the way to Subway. I redirected my time toward making sure I’d be able to get into college. My grades improved dramatically, I opened up more, took a break from toxic friends, and joined clubs. I felt unstoppable and my confidence rebooted itself. 
I was high on my own self love, but at 19, at this Jazmine Sullivan concert, my fake it ’til you make it juice has worn off and I’m left with the shallow ass kiddie pool that is my self worth. I’m not sure how this happened. It could be because everything is going well for me right now: I’m entering my sophomore year of college with good grades, I’m having sex I actually enjoy, and I’m writing more. I should be ecstatic and loving life! Maybe I think so poorly of myself that I feel like I don’t deserve this? I’m not satisfied with myself. Sure, I’ve come a long way from wearing back braces and taking Percocet for pain, but I still hate my scars and deformed spine. I feel out of place in my own body and undeserving of all the love I’ve been receiving. I want to get back to being 13 and fearless, not 19 and unsure of myself. ♦
Simone
This summer, I was a camp counselor. I decided to become a camp counselor a week before camp started, so naturally I was very confused, and sometimes felt out of place. I was nervous kids would judge my Nae Nae the way other teenagers do. As it turns out, middle schoolers graders are amused by me. Maybe it’s only because of my vast Diary of a Wimpy Kid knowledge, or exciting high school stories, but it’s admiration nonetheless. Camp counselling is more similar to Wet Hot American Summer than paying parents would like, but it’s best that way.
I got my braces off. I expected this moment to change me forever. To look in a mirror, and see a completely new, glo’d up face, and know that my life would never be the same. A braceless Simone would still be clumsy and fun, but in a sexy way. She would look 21, and have her way with 21-year-old men. But Simone is still not that, in fact, I’m the opposite of that. Nothing has really changed, my teeth are just straight. Post-removal, I spent a week forgetting I didn’t have braces anymore and licking my teeth. Then, I didn’t really care or remember what I had gone through for 18 months. Self-confidence requires more than pliers, I guess.
Five weeks later, I lost my retainer.
I went to my grandma’s house for the longest I’ve ever been, with my dad and brother. And I realized, not only do I really love my dad, but also my brother. He was my best friend this summer.
I went to the Mac DeMarco show I’d been anticipating for months. I was so close to the stage, and everyone wanted my spot. Boys pushed their way to the front. They stopped to stand right behind my friends, and I thought to myself, This is the closest I’ve ever been to a boy. Wow. Everyone was sweaty, some were shirtless, and a lot of unintentional grinding ensued. But then, the boys pushed in front of us, and I realized the only good man left in this word is McBriare Samuel Lanyon DeMarco, so I jumped on stage, gave him the plastic Lisa Simpson head I’d brought for him, and kissed him on the cheek. I dove off stage and ran to get water. I was shaking, and could barely stand because residual marijuana smoke and touching your idol have mystifying powers, especially when combined.
I gained seven pounds, and none of my summer clothes fit anymore. That made me kind of sad, so I started eating more healthily, and lost eight. As I’m learning, losing weight doesn’t really change how you feel about yourself. Well, besides how well your clothing fits. (I did miss my jorts for a brief time.)
I didn’t sneak out every night. I didn’t make any new friends. I didn’t travel anywhere exciting, I didn’t even get on a plane. I didn’t have a summer fling. I didn’t even finish a show on Netflix. But, I had a good summer. A relaxing, and calm, and rejuvenating summer. Although I’m not looking forward to my inevitable return to chaotic high school bullshit, I’m not dreading it. I’m ready. I’m an improved, albeit currently retainer-less, Simone.
As of last night, summer is over. I’ll miss it. ♦
Thahabu
“You forgot about me?” a 24-year-old man with a child asked me over the phone. I hadn’t talked to him for a week after giving him my number. I was walking through the park when we met. He was pushing two babies in swings and waved what I thought was an innocent hello. I smiled back, speeding my way to the library. The next thing I heard was, “Get that slim, get that!” I tried to rationalize as I always do in these situations, he can’t be talking about me. The man rushed after me, leaving the kids in the swings for his friend to watch. He began shouting to get my attention but I ignored him, already aware of what was going on. I turned around to see how close he was to me: close enough. I’m not new to this so I quickly went through the motions in my head, any man that will leave his kids to follow me out of a park is the type of man who’ll get angry and hurt me if I don’t respond to him. So I stopped, and performed the routine I always do when men bother me on the street. I forced a smile and complied. 
“Why was you ignoring me when I was calling you?” There was a sense possesiveness in his voice. 
“Oh, um, I’m kinda in a rush” I replied. 
He told me his name which I do not remember, and kept telling me how I need to respond when someone’s talking to me. I just nodded my head. He asked for my number and I gave it to him my real number, because I knew what was coming: He called it right in front of me to make sure it was mine. 
This happens so often that I have categories for types of street harassers, and I could tell he was the, “Let me call your phone right now so I know you ain’t tryna play me” type. Had it been the wrong number, if my phone didn’t ring when he called, my safety would’ve been compromised, my body and personal space would’ve been violated, and I’d be called a bitch like I have been in the past. And now here I am, speechless, because this stranger has the nerve to call me saying, “You forgot about me,” as if I owe him something for pressuring me into giving him my number. 
“No,” I said, before hanging up and blocking him like should’ve done a week ago.
In those moments I practically reacted the same as I would to a police officer stopping me for no reason. I assessed the situation, realized he had much more power and strength than me, and did as he said I should to protect my life. Whenever I tell these kinds of stories to my male friends—specifically my black male friends—they tell me I’m overreacting. It’s sad. How can someone who’s used to being followed around by strange white men in uniforms tell me, a black woman, that being followed around and harassed by strange men isn’t that big of a deal? 
They don’t understand how prevalent and violent is is. That’s why I need black feminism. Because the feeling of fear that rushes through my spine every time a cop approaches me is the same feeling I get whenever a man follows me home or asks me “Why?” when I refuse to give him my number. Just like cops think they’re entitled to my body and time when they tell me to step aside and give them my name, these men who approach me, refuse to take my “No,” and demand that I explain why I don’t wanna hang with them. They show the same bravado as a power-hungry police officer. What’s not to get? The same men who complain about store clerks following them around look me dead in the face when they tell me being followed home by men who ‘like’ me should be taken as a compliment. It’s frightening. ♦
Alyson
I’m writing in my diary, not a journal (I am trying to make myself comfortable with the word “diary”) in first period, regular U.S. History. I write during that class almost every day. It works well because no one sits behind me, and most of what we are learning was covered in the President’s Day presentations I had every year in elementary school; a crash course on pilgrims, Native Americans, and presidents. 
Today, there is someone sitting behind me, because she wants to take notes with her friend in the very back row of desks. Except they are not taking notes. One is telling the other how she is going to her boyfriend’s house after the football game tonight, because his parents are gone for the weekend. It’s a scenario I have only heard in ’80s movies. 
Giggle giggle giggle. Her friend laughs that all-knowing laugh. They know a lot of boys, they are kind of popular. Popular like all the other blonde girls who wear striped T-shirt dresses and booties, and put dark streaks in their light hair. 
As much as I feel uncomfortable about hearing girls my age expend all of their words on how they plan to get hook-ups, I start to self-evaluate. 
I remember, like, 50 years ago when I watched Prom with my mom. She thought it was sweet, but I thought it was exciting. I was totally under the impression that people were going to be such adults in high school, and that I would most definitely be asked to a dance. Now I am dipping my toe in the dull waters of junior year where the only guys who might ever ask me to anything are boys who I was nice to, while the others stay in the platonic playpen.
And it’s starting to wear on me. 
Am I listening to them because I might want to know…how? How to get boys to like me, despite the fact that I have never colored my hair and refuse to wear those T-shirt-dress hybrids? 
God, of course not.
Maybe. ♦
Steffany
My first week in college has been nothing short of eventful, and to add insult to injury, I am in deep infatuation. It all started on the second night of school. Far away from the watchful eyes of their parents, many of the freshmen, me included, decided to turn up. We’d all been friends with the upperclassmen, and there was a party happening in their campus apartments. Apartments are living spaces reserved for older students, who decided to stick it out; for that you get a kitchen area although you’re too broke to afford food to cook.
Anyway, we’re all gathered around this little kitchen table. There’s pettiness aplenty with people dividing into cliques, and rationing out a 40 oz beer amongst themselves. I, not being in the clique, could not partake of a shot of beer and pretend that I was drunk. Instead, I make conversation with the guy next to me. He’s a sophomore, but he’s my age—one of the overachieving types who stayed close to home at the urging of his parents, and lost his mind with all the freedom to which he gained access. But he doesn’t matter. Who matters much more, is his attractive friend, we’ll call him Al. Al is tall and lanky, brimming with this unspoken confidence, with an incredibly dry and endearing demeanor. I am in love. The girls at the party all noticed him, but I was the one hanging out with him. 
Things were kinda fuzzy because I had decided to do things my parents had warned me against. Nonetheless, he chatted me up, and took care of me. It was like I was the only person who mattered, but that may have been the drugs. I mean, maybe that’s why I’m idealizing him in the first place. That whole night was as if I was in the middle of one of Spike Lee’s famous dolly shots. You know the scene in Crooklyn where Troy gets high and floats through Brooklyn? That was me. And all the guilt I felt for having partaken in the first place melted away.
He saw me a day or two later and went out of his way to say hi. It didn’t fully click and I kinda blew him off. It was the third hello that made me infatuated. Maybe I’m being silly, and he just felt bad for the freshman who couldn’t hang. Either way, I am crushing so hard. It’s conflicting: Looking for him on campus like I’m in some one-sided game of hide and seek makes the day more fun. My friends going, “I SEEN YOUR BOO, GIRL!” while we walk to class is funny. It’s a schoolgirl crush, but I’ll also be pretty upset if I don’t get over my nerves and talk to him. 
Am I pretty enough? Interesting enough? Am I his type? I hate being hampered by those questions because they undermine the self-confidence I’ve worked so hard to build. As of now, I can only love myself for who I am and hope Al sees something in me. Ugh, that sounds so desperate. But what is a girl to do? I’m literally smiling as I type this, thinking about the possibility of our having a relationship. This makes me feel silly but I also like the butterflies in my stomach when we’re in the dining hall and he looks in my direction. ♦
Britney
Breakfast: Melon that reminds me of Toulouse, café au lait, 75 milligrams of Zoloft, juice. I read a Susan Sontag essay and try to place the source of the dense foreboding that is too big for my body before realizing: Today is the last day before school starts. My first day of junior year. 
I want to be worth it. I repeat: I want to be worth it. I want to do incredibly well in school and be the type of person who spends a considerable amount of time focused on academics, and dedicate part of each day to making art and writing. I want to be organized and content and feel as if I am making the most of myself. 
I’ve cut my hair even shorter than before. I am growing to hate spending time worrying about my physical self, worrying about how I look and how others perceive me. 
I get two new Salvador Dalí posters for my room—Crucifixion and The Meditative Rose. I buy a ticket to the Whitney; my favorite thing is going to the museums I love most by myself. I try to make myself happy for once in my life. I want to be good to myself and to others. 
In a dream that I wake up from doused in perspiration, I have died without initially realizing it; it is perhaps the most jarring dream I have ever had, because my will to live has never been stronger, and has never felt more necessary. I do not have enough happiness but I am constantly reaching for positivity. ♦
Simone
Things That Happened During my First Week of Junior Year:
1. I jam packed my schedule, ridding myself of lunch period, and thus, the opportunity to buy lunch off campus. My wallet, and that of my father, rejoiced. I’ve discovered the magic of smashed up, room temperature peanut butter and jelly sandwiches eaten during gym class.
2. I survived the first week with my mom as my English teacher. In class it was not that bad; she laughed at all my jokes and didn’t make me feel like an idiot.
2a. At home, it was horrible. Twice in one week she preemptively grounded me until I finished all the “work she knew I had.”
2ai. As a result, in addition to the guilt I feel in cancelling babysitting jobs, I missed the first “lituation” of the school year. I felt very “salty,” because my night, which lasted until 4:32 AM, and consisted only of homework and crying babies, was “buns.”
3. A boy told me I was glo’ing up. I cherished the moment. I will forever. 
4. I ruined a great platonic relationship with a boy by doing the single most awkward thing you can do in a great platonic relationship with a boy, and worse yet, the day before school started.
4a. We have exchanged an estimated five words since.
4b. I hope we were not acting upon actual feelings because emotional attachment is a distraction from my study and sleep schedule.
5. My stomach has entered a perpetual state of what I can only describe as “butterflies,” as I nervously flit from class to class, thinking of all the work I have, people I must impress, and whether I am contracting tetanus from re-exposure to my school building. It lingers as I return home and procrastinate until the late hours of the night, forgetting to eat and drink water and calm down as I dwell in my stress. I go to sleep, wake up, and repeat the same routine on yet another day.
6. I cried a lot, almost every night. Pressure, and people, and petty high school bullshit are so annoying. I miss summer.
6a. For any of you who need the recommendation, I’ve found “When You’re Gone” by the Cranberries is a very good song to cry to. ♦
Marah
My only goal right now is to find dignity, which I have lost in my own homeland. I have, therefore, decided to travel. We heard that following the global interest in the story of the little Syrian boy who drowned, some European countries decided to send ships to safely transfer Syrians from Turkey to Europe for free. This news motivated me, and I raised the subject with my mother, who completely rejected the idea. She knows that no matter how we do it, it will cost us a lot of money. Additionally, she has heard many stories about poor conditions in the refugee camps in Turkey; she does not want us—if we fail for any reason to get on one of these ships—to end up living in one of them.
My mother’s concerns have not changed my mind, and after the recent explosions in Damascus, I am more convinced than ever that leaving is my only hope. The explosions and the severe security measures that followed turned life in the capital into hell.
The situation is deteriorating day after day. Everybody is exhausted and fed up. A few days ago, there was a huge explosion close to where we live. None of us was injured, but my mother, who was at work when it occurred, was frightened for our lives.
I have a surprise for you: I got officially engaged to the man I mentioned to you. He is my only way to get out of here and start a new life. The engagement is intended as a time to get to know each other and learn if we are a good match to start a family together. When I talk to him, I sometimes feel that I am talking to a friend, and sometimes like I am talking to a brother, or even a father. The whole thing is very recent, but I have a feeling that things will work out between us.
I went to apply for a passport and I was shocked at the number of people also applying. I waited from 8 AM until 4 PM, and it was still not my turn. It seemed like every Syrian was planning to leave, or, more accurately, was planning to escape. I do not blame them—life here is unbearable. Maybe people rushed to apply for passports when they heard about the European ships. We do not know how credible the news is, but people are devastated and looking for a way out.
My mother refuses to take any action because she is worried that the whole story might be a rumor and she does not want us to take any risks. She does not want to leave with me, so I have found my own way out: I will marry someone who can help. I cannot stop thinking of how crowded the immigration center was. Syria is losing its citizens and turning into a deserted country. Everyone is searching for the dignity that Syrians asked for at the beginning of the revolution, but we received more humiliation instead.
It is very strange how life has stripped us of our independent will, and is now leading us the way it wants—we make decisions we never imagined we could make, and take roads we never imagined we could take. The future does not scare me anymore, because there is nothing worse than where I am right now. I must take risks with the hope that I might save myself, my family and my future. ♦
Marah’s diary is produced in collaboration with Syria Deeply, a digital news outlet covering the Syrian crisis. It was translated from the Arabic by Mais Istanbelli.
Lilly
Time goes on. My friends from other parts of the U.S. complain about starting school; I grind my teeth into my second month of it. I panic over a calculus test at midnight and ace it the next morning. My college counselor tells me that 12 other people in my class are applying to one of my top choice universities, and I wonder helplessly what that means for my chances. With club soccer out of the picture, everything is about school and college applications and The Future, and sometimes I can’t believe that I once thought I could handle both school and soccer this semester. I don’t know how our athletes do it.
Time goes on. I get my MRI done; the technician on the evening shift is a gruff sort of guy who is impossibly careful with me as he settles my ankle into a foam pocket and tells me not to move, not even to wiggle my toes. He tells me that I won’t feel anything and gives me a pair of headphones to counteract the ominous clunking noises that the huge cylindrical machine makes as it scans my lower body. Half an hour later I’m wobbling out of the clinic with tingling legs—from the lengthy stillness or the changing magnetic fields?—and a vague hope that in a few days, maybe, I’ll be out of the air cast for good.
Time goes on. I’ll be seeing Purity Ring live soon, taping up my wristband and melding with the crowd. The last show I went to at this venue was flashy and wild with enough bass to make my stomach clench and everyone in attendance feel that much more alive. For the last song I joined hands with two people I didn’t know and whirled with the masses, made confident by anonymity. Will it be the same this year? 
Time goes on. Maybe I only feel a little empty, but it’s a lot of the time. ♦
Britney
This school year feels different. Last week one of my very best friends and I saw L7; I met Donita Sparks afterwards, in the bar while I was looking for my lost phone. It felt like a still from the ’70s, when an aspiring groupie finally meets her idol. It was a tender moment drenched in sweat and blue eyeliner. I stood in awe afterwards on a street corner with my friend as she smoked and showed me the pick that Donita gave her. “I can’t believe she touched me,” she said, her eyes widening with so much admiration that my heart almost burst. “I’ll never forget this. I’m never washing my hand.” 
I go through entire days happy—this is not normal for me. I don’t get tired. I smile all the time and I kiss my friends on the cheek when I see them and I look forward to things. I like all of my classes. I answer questions and perk up when my name is called and take extensive notes on everything the teacher says. My conversations are no longer awkward, I compliment random people in the hallways, and I talk to the seniors. I do not cry when I remember that they will be gone next year and I will be taking their place; I have learned to appreciate the present. It is a gift. I have no recollection of what it is like to be depressed from the time I wake up to the time I struggle to go to sleep. I do not feel normal, and for once in my life, this is a very, very good thing. ♦
Steffany
As part of my work study, I sit in a museum shop for five hours. I thought I had hit the jackpot—taking up a job that required very little actual work. I was wrong. I mean, I should be counting my blessings, but when there’s nothing to do five hours is a long stretch. There’s very little to sell outside of overpriced trinkets and our target demographic seems to be artsy, rich, white people. However, a closer look reveals that these people aren’t very artsy after all, and despite being rich, they’re not willing to part with $200 for an “African” rug. Any textile in the store that uses a lot of color is pegged as African, as if that drives up the market value. I imagine these people want to seem cultured because they can mention their African baskets and such at the next dinner party. We don’t get many visitors and I think the selection of art is mediocre. I watched a performance art piece in tribute to Eric Garner that felt disingenuous. Upstairs are run of the mill works, Rothko, Albers, and the like.
An exciting part of my week was seeing some rappers perform at my school. The beats were sick, but when I went on SoundCloud, it was like the feeling and sound in that little heat filled basement-like room couldn’t be replicated online. Between dabbing and whipping, I decided to embark on a journey to make my own music. I would like to get some music equipment when I come by some money. In the meantime, I’ve been teaching myself virtual DJ. My only issue is that, as a DJ, I want to play the music I want to hear. Nobody in the club wants to hear Cherrelle. I mean, I know it isn’t the ’80s, but if I remixed it maybe? I’ve been really looking to Kindness, the musician Adam Bainbridge, whose mixes incorporate the old and the new in fresh ways. He’s also kind of cute. 
I grew up around music and I’ve been dying to make some of my own. So here’s to ditching self doubt and moving forward in pursuing our dreams, no matter how big or small. ♦
Marah
Damascus is a city to love. Everyone who has visited or lived in this city has fallen for her. Songs and poetry have been written about and for her. But the almost-five-year war has damaged her—all we are thinking of now is how to leave her.
The pain and the blood that we experience every day exhausts us. Even my mother, the wise and strong woman who has overcome so much, is becoming weak. She recently decided that my brother should immigrate to Europe as a refugee with one of our relatives so that he might one day apply for family reunion papers to help us get out of this hell.
She knew how hard and dangerous the journey was, and she knew that he was still a 12-year-old boy, but she had run out of options. She got him a passport and started planning his trip, but she backed out at the very last moment. She realized that she was sacrificing him for the sake of the rest of us, and saw that it was not fair. Many families are sending their kids into the unknown with the hope that they might one day help the rest of the family get out.
People are not only fleeing to Europe—internal displacement has brought many new souls to Damascus. They suffer from such extreme poverty and poor living conditions that they cannot afford to send their children to school because the family unit is dependent on all its members for survival. I cannot imagine what kind of future is in store for Syria.
As for me, I work all day long, and in a month, I will return to my studies. I still have hope that one day I will realize my dreams, but I know that this will never happen here. I cannot achieve anything here, and I cannot enjoy anything either. I don’t even enjoy the company of my friends anymore. Everything has become void of meaning. There is only one thing left: my family. They are my strength when I am surrounded by nothing but darkness.
I want to leave so that I can help my family, but my mother rejects the idea unless I go to Switzerland, where my aunt lives. I don’t want to proceed with my plans without my mom’ s approval, because if I leave, I don’t know if I will ever see her again because death has become our daily companion in Syria. I am lost and scattered. I don’t know what to do. I cannot make a decision that might lead to me losing my family. ♦
Marah’s diary is produced in collaboration with Syria Deeply, a digital news outlet covering the Syrian crisis. It was translated from the Arabic by Mais Istanbelli.
Alyson
There’s something I do to myself when I have really landed at the bottom of the pit. I ask myself the rhetorical question, like a disciplinarian parent, What would my _____ self think of me now? I didn’t realize how mean it was until last week at the doctor’s office. A wellness-check. The scale.
What would my ana-self think of me now?
That’s the question that does me in. The answer hits like a spanking.
My grip slips in pre-calculus, just like every time I have attempted a pull-up. When did this begin?
What would my “smartest in the class” elementary school self think of me now?
God, everyone thought I was so smart. But now every other number might as well be a question mark and I don’t want to “ask my neighbor” because I can practically see his ego eating my dependency up. 
I wonder if someday I will ask myself, What would my high school self think of me now? ♦
Simone
I’m willing to accept the ever-changing texture of my hair. I’m aware that even as child, with curly mixed hair, my tresses never looked the same two days in a row. I’m aware that once you bleach your hair, it is never the same. I’m aware that unless I decide to cut off all my hair and embrace wigs for the next five years, I will spend this time covering up roots with various dyes, only to have them wash out after a few weeks and be left with the problem I began with initially. I’m aware that I’m only so paranoid about the appearance of my hair because society has trained me to believe, that as a woman—and more specifically a teenage girl—my value is almost wholly dependent upon how many people want to bone me, and that this is in part determined by the state of my hair. But I’m aware that ultimately, there are more pressing matters to fret about than my hair being frizzy, or having overgrown roots. For example, the melting of the polar ice caps, and the popularity of Donald Trump as a political figure.
I’m willing to accept newfound stresses and heavy workloads. I’m aware that my junior year of high school will likely be my most challenging and strenuous. I’m aware that I must allocate appropriate and realistic amounts of time to completing my work. I’m aware that I will have to better my study habits, because from this point onwards it seems, my high school career will entail a severe amount of testing. I’m aware that I am entering the difficult phase of my life in which my self-worth depends entirely on college acceptances and fractions gained out of 2,400. But I’m also aware that my self-worth does not depend entirely on these things. I will do my best to remain creative, and confident, and content with my state of being.
I’m willing to accept the social politics of high school, and the fact that my place in them is about as prominent as that of a mayor in small town in Wyoming. I’m aware that if I want to regularly be admitted into parties, gain loyal freshman Instagram followers, and kiss cute boys, I will have to change my personal priorities, spending more time on my physical appearance, crafting more intricate lies to tell my parents, and possibly abandoning a few outlying friends. I’m aware that some of my closest allies have chosen this path and—from Snapchat stories and morning-after texts—seem happy with it. But, I’m aware that the Simone from two months ago, and even two days ago, wouldn’t sell herself short for a few hours of forgetful fun every weekend. She wouldn’t even consider it.
I’m aware that there will be nights spent home alone when I wish I could be another girl, holding a Red Solo Cup and yelling at her friends to get their shit together. I’m aware that some nights this girl will be. She’s been let into the party, and made some younger underclassmen hopeful for the stories of their social lives to come. She’s even kissed a cute boy. But will she really be any happier, or more confident? Will her hair look better? Will her readiness for the SAT or ACT or AP have improved? Will she feel adequate? Will she still wish she could fit into a smaller size? Yes. She always will, even if she’s found some miracle way to keep her hair pin-straight for 24 hours, and she’s gained early admission to her dream school. She could be the most important girl in her bubble, but she’ll always think, What if I’d done this, instead of that? and Where would I be if hadn’t done any of that at all? and Am I pretty enough, or smart enough, or cool enough?
I need to be more willing to accept that perfection is unattainable. ♦
Thahabu
Light, but not mixed race, which means light skinned but not “beautiful.” My twist outs never come out right, my hair is nappy. I’m light skinned, but don’t quite resemble Tracee Ellis Ross. “You’re brave, I would never wear my hair like that,” fellow black girls say to me. 
I’m still learning to accept that I’ll never look like Zendaya or Zoë Kravitz. I’ve always been jealous of mixed girls with loose curls and faces that scream, my parents achieved the perfect ethnic mix to make the perfect human being! I want to be them: interesting and pretty, not confusing and nappy. Saying I’m black and only black disappoints people vying to hear me sing, “I’m Danish, Japanese, and black,” like a popular MJ lyric. “I’m just black,” doesn’t cut it. 
I remember being at a high school party and having this boy flirt with me. It was going well until he completely flipped the conversation, “I bet your pussy so pink.” I replied that it wasn’t, perturbed and unaware that at 15 people have preferences for the color of a girl’s vulva. He paused and stared at me with a mix of bewilderment and slight disgust, “Oh yea, you probably not mixed, I can tell from your hair.” Of course I was offended and told him off, but it was in that instant that I started to feel like a glitch, when I noticed that I may be light skinned and reap all the privileges of my light complexion, but I’d never meet the Light-Skinned Girl beauty standard. I contradict the idea that having light skin means you have long soft curls and a non-black parent, and that seems to upset people.
This aspect of my life has had a huge effect on my self esteem. Every day I battle with telling myself that I’m worthy of love. I’m attempting to come to terms with not being blessed with the “perfect” genetic makeup. I’ll never be enough, not mixed enough, not tall enough, definitely not thick enough. I’m not sure if I’ll ever be OK with that; being shaped like Thandie Newton but shorter with a slightly bigger butt, and having awkward big lips that make me look like a fish. Never beautiful, but always “cute.” 
Many of my biracial friends struggle with not looking “black enough,” while I grapple with not looking “ambiguous enough.” As a non-mixed, light-skinned girl I’m viewed as coming up short. I could almost pass for an Ideal Mixed Girl, but there’s always that one person who makes a comment about the texture of my hair or the roundness of my nose and I’m a have-not or just “aight” once again. I’m in this strange purgatory on the color scale, and I don’t like it. I’m still chasing after an idea of perfection, and frankly, it’s tiring. I’ll have to stop and look in the mirror one day. I’m just not sure if I’m ready for it. ♦
Cammy
It’s easy to say that last week was one of the worst weeks of my life. Here’s why:
My Math teacher switched my seat so I’m in a terrible group where everyone just copies from me AND my best friend in the class is practically a million miles away. This exact thing happened in my Chemistry class lab group, where one girl didn’t know which end liquid came out of a dropper.
I had a group project in English. I chose to work with this one boy thinking that we would work well together, only to find out that he’s a patronizing control freak.
I was back at my dad’s house; as usual he had something bitter to say to me.
I’ve been feeling like I’m missing out on my friends’ lives.
I scored pretty low on my SRI test.
On Friday, I got paint in my hair that doesn’t seem like it’s coming out any time soon. Haircut???
Probably the worst thing happening right now is that I’m getting over this could-have-been relationship which ended earlier this summer when the person I was into started dating someone else. Since school started, I’ve had to be around these two people, and seeing them can ruin my entire day. Issues around this have been building up all summer long, but last week, it just became too overwhelming. I can honestly say that I’ve cried at least twice a day, every day.
Just being alone for a little too long makes me feel like the world is over. Part of me is scared that I’ll never get out of this funk, but I also feel like things are maybe looking up, just a little. 
A lot of my favorite shows are starting back up.
In a recent Queer Straight Alliance leadership meeting we came up with some of the best ideas probably ever.
There’s now officially a Rookie Yearbook Four signing in San Francisco in a little over a month.
I caught up on some movies my friends have been wanting me to watch (Frances Ha and Amelie)
I’m getting good grades!
Feminist Club is starting and it’ll be so fun to hang out with all my friends.
I got all these great stickers and I’m getting new glasses soon.
I got to make a super funny video with my friends Dio and Chris for Computer class.
I guess, one of my best qualities is that even when things are bad, I know they’ll pass. This optimistic attitude has got me through a lot and I’m sure I’ll be able to put these bad feelings away soon. I’m really looking forward to that. ♦
Simone
I’m falling short.
This past weekend it was one of my best friend’s birthdays. My other friend had planned a massive gathering at her house in honor of the event. I woke up at 11 AM, energized. I showered, and thought about doing homework, but didn’t. I stared at myself in the mirror for about 30 minutes. I watched people on BuzzFeed eat Vegemite. I imagined possible scenarios which could take place later in the evening. I soon remembered I had to go to my grandpa’s birthday dinner during the day, so I put on pants. Then I stared at myself some more, because I was looking good! LIFE was good.
And then around 1 PM, I started getting cramps. For some people, cramps are annoying, but manageable. For others, they are painful, but treatable. For me, they involve excessive crying, vomiting induced by the churning organs of my lower abdomen, and questioning God’s existence. Something so normal and standard for every person with a shedding uterus, is debilitating and detrimental for me. So, I missed my grandpa’s birthday dinner. Worse than my mother’s judgement of me ( she likely assumed I’d magnified my symptoms to miss out on “How is school?” and “Do you have a boyfriend yet?” questions from extended family), was that this dinner was taking place at an Americanized Asian-fusion all-you-can-eat buffet. This establishment is a literal description of my aesthetic, but over 90 miles away from my home. I don’t know when my next opportunity to eat Kung Pao chicken tenders on a skewer will arise.
I was left home alone where I slept for four hours, and cried every time I saw someone in a wedding dress on television, because love is BEAUTIFUL. My parents returned home; although my recovery was beginning, I still could not move from the fetal position without feeling the pain of one thousand knives being driven into my lower left side by Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson.
I missed the party, and funny moments, and seeing people I don’t usually see in school, but most importantly, the group photoshoots. As mentioned earlier, I’d spent half my day sleeping, so I didn’t get any homework done either. I decided to re-watch every movie available On Demand released in 2007, but after 20 minutes of Shrek the Third, I fell asleep again.
I woke up Sunday morning, and stared at my agenda, and saw nine archaically dictated federalist papers to translate and summarize into contemporary English, a thick Spanish script to memorize for a presentation Monday, e-mails to send, a lengthy bill on a boring economic topic to write, and more opportunities to miss. It’s 5 PM now. I fell short. ♦
Marah
At Eid al-Adha, the Feast of the Sacrifice holiday, everyone is supposed to be busy getting ready, buying food, sweets and new clothes to celebrate. But people are overwhelmed by other things. 
This year, the holiday came just as schools were opening their doors for the new academic year—right when students need school supplies. Because of the war, most Syrians are unemployed and they cannot afford both occasions at the same time. 
Many families are under a lot of pressure, and that leads to stress and fighting. For many, a new backpack or a new pair of pants has become a dream.
As people suffer, others exploit the situation. Property owners have shown no mercy and rents have soared to unprecedented heights. The owner of our tiny apartment wants to double the rent. My mother’s income and my income combined can barely cover our needs, and we cannot afford our rent. For this reason, we are now looking for an even smaller place. 
My income, although small, helps a lot, so I cannot leave my job. I will be working in a showroom during Eid al-Adha. I am not happy that I will not be spending time with my family during the holiday, but the showroom job pays well, and we need every penny. However, my family will be stuck at home, because the streets are not safe—explosions and missiles are everywhere and people are too scared to leave their houses.
As for holiday gifts, we received the best present ever: no electricity or water for five days—we felt less than human. What makes things even more difficult is that, being from an opposition-controlled area, many people blame us for what is happening in the country, as if it was our fault. I am really fed up with what some people say. Often I just cannot control myself, and I explode in their faces and defend myself and all displaced people. My mother says that I should control myself, and avoid responding to such accusations, but I do not agree with her—I believe that it is my responsibility to defend myself and those like me. Additionally, the general pressure makes it very hard for me to absorb and contain such accusations. No matter how strong we are, we all have limits, and the past five years have brought me to mine. 
The worsening situation has changed me in significant ways. I am not the same person I used to be. My standards and morals have changed. I mean, look at me: I agreed to get engaged to someone that I have no feelings for, only so that he might take me out of here! I feel like I am using him and I that it is not fair. I truly do not know who I am anymore. I look at myself in the mirror and do not recognize the girl I see, so I cry and cry. ♦
Marah’s diary is produced in collaboration with Syria Deeply, a digital news outlet covering the Syrian crisis. It was translated from the Arabic by Mais Istanbelli.
Marah
In a desperate move to convince me to marry the guy who proposed, my mother used a trick to get me to talk to him on the phone. What she did upset me, because it made me feel like there was something wrong with me that she needed to fix. In any case, although I refused the whole idea, I ended up talking to him.
When we started the conversation, something very strange happened to me: My legs began to shake, my eyes teared up, and my hands could not carry the phone anymore. It was as if I was talking to a guy for the first time in my life. I must have looked very silly.
He was very nice and sweet, and for a moment I was ready to give him a chance. This feeling scared me, so I told him that I could not talk at the time and ended the call. I did not understand what happened to me, or why I was disturbed and blushing. I am a university student and I’ve encountered men who expressed admiration for me before, but something was different about this guy.
He called again later and we had a long conversation. He was sweet, educated, and confident. He reminded me of my father, and maybe this was why I liked him. He sent me his picture, and my mother asked me to save it on my cellphone. I’m sure she sensed that I was leaning toward accepting the idea, and asking me to save the picture was one more tactic of hers.
After many conversations with him, things started to change. Obviously, I am not in love with him. I can’t even say that I like him yet, but there is something pulling me toward him. Frankly, I’ve begun to seriously consider his proposal. What is happening to me? How could some sweet words affect me this way? Is it normal that I’ve begun to think of sharing my life with this person? Or is it because the situation I live in is so absurd that I am uniquely vulnerable? I don’t know and I will let time tell me. I will, of course, continue my studies no matter what happens, and he actually encouraged me to do so. Anyway, my mother is very happy to see this change.
Oh, I got distracted by talking about this guy, and I forgot to update you on some things. My friends and I had an end-of-year party. We are all sophomores now. Also, my mother finally found a job as a secretary in a currency exchange company. It is a comfortable job and it pays well, but she does not love it—she misses teaching. Her new job is mostly about receiving and answering emails, and she misses the human connections that she used to make as a teacher.
I love my mother so much that I can’t imagine living away from her. She is very excited about this guy because he represents an opportunity for me to travel, start over, and leave this scary place. But I don’t want to leave her alone, and this is another reason why I am very hesitant. Also, I keep asking myself: Am I ready to start a family? What if I have a child? Am I ready to be a mother? I am really confused, and I cannot make a decision. I feel attracted to the guy, but I worry that this attraction is stemming from a need to escape from the reality I live in. ♦
Marah’s diary is produced in collaboration with Syria Deeply, a digital news outlet covering the Syrian crisis. It was translated from the Arabic by Mais Istanbelli.
Britney
What a gas it is, self-annihilation (gallows humor?). “Half alive is not dead.” I am sick. 
            Sick 
                    Sick!
And I play the role of pathetic little thing (this reference to Tracey Emin comes via Jenny Zhang’s Poetry piece) not only on my own poorly-built stage, but in the stages of others as well; I am a wild, unformed mess/mass dragging myself across well-lit Broadway stages. I am disappointing at such a rapid pace that I wonder if I could fit into any of the many hat boxes on the flight from Tel Aviv-Yafo to my native city. I am a hunched over, dull-eyed baby seal being clubbed over the head with the harsh surprise of life and ugly New York accents. I miss the French and I miss the Dutch. If this were my suicide note, it would be a very ugly one (would it?).
I feel as if I will be dead soon; this is not synonymous with thinking I will be dead soon. It is more or less an instinct. Some would call it a psychic touch. I know what I want, but not within these parameters. I am being institutionalized; this will be number three.
For the first time in my life, I long to finally be 18 so that I can escape the ugliness of this country and welcome Amsterdam and the small cities of France once again. Anything from here on out will be a race against time. ♦
Britney
1. As I tiptoe around my room because my feet are bare and the floor is mostly dust, hair I’ve pulled, and pieces of food that other patients left behind, I remember crying about my mom in a park in France with my host family. I can still hear the shouts of the skaters on the other side of the shrubs behind us. Their four-year-old daughter does not understand the concept of cancer, so my host mother explains that she died of “a bad sickness.” Their daughter is thrown off for a few minutes, then says in French that we must build a rocket so we can go to the moon, get my mom back, and bring her down to earth. I like that idea.
2. I cannot, cannot, cannot go to residential, but as far as I’m concerned my mom (to clarify: she’s my guardian but I call her my mom a lot), has other ideas. I wouldn’t survive. I lay beneath the blinding fluorescent yellow of the light above my head and think about what it would be like—how much easier it would be—to live in the lavender fields of Bordeaux that I passed so frequently with my host family, spending my days among the purple stalks, my bare skin brushing against them in full bloom.
3. It is the summer of the fruit fly. I wonder what it would be like to be generally likeable and to be calm all the time and to not feel like a screw-up 24/7. In fact, I’ve wondered this for a while, maybe even years. Hmmm…
4. We get two five-minute phone calls twice a day; each time I call my mother. The last time we spoke, she talked about me going away to residential in a very matter-of-fact way and, in what felt like an out-of-body experience induced by a cocktail of sadness and rage, I hung up—the one thing that I shouldn’t have done. I raced to my room, sobbed underneath the thin white blanket, and then slept for hours. I’ve been too afraid to talk to her since. See what I mean about being a screw-up?
5. A depressive in a psych ward is a dime a dozen find and no one lets me forget it, to the point of feeling absolutely expendable. It’s ridiculous that mental health is such a competition for some but it’s the least of my worries so I push it aside.
6. I am very into the black and white etchings of tragic beauties of centuries past, especially since they always make me think of either Juliet Capulet or the Salem witch trials. All of these things come together in my mind, boiling down to this: I envy anyone who possesses the intriguing witchiness or delicate melancholy of any of the people I mention, even though what I’ve just said is based on a romanticized notion of all of the aforementioned situations. I am susceptible, and always have been despite quelling it in recent years, not only to being attracted to darkness and eeriness that makes me feel at least a little uneasy, but romanticizing it all. As someone who, at 16, is still awkward and seen as a sad girl who wears all black and often falls into mumbling or stuttering, and spends free periods on the quad behind school listening to a cassette player while reading or writing, I can’t help it. Not only do I feel like I’ve been a late bloomer in respect to growing into myself, so much of what I think and do and feel is brushed off as “teen angst,” which is the most cringe-worthy phrase ever. I am too wrapped up in this headache to explain how all of this is even connected and my hand is cramping up so this’ll have to do.
7. Things in this little room of mine: a heart-shaped box with “HOLE” across the top, a stripped bed next to mine, books, clothes shoved into a cubbyhole, journals, crossword puzzles, stale air. I miss freedom, I miss the late night walks in my neighborhood, and I miss friends. I miss feeling loved by someone other than family but this is something I’ve missed for much longer than my stay here. I hate anyone who has ever told me that things get better; fate is against me. ♦
Britney
I wake up in a Benadryl haze to a pillow of my own hair beneath me. The plan to take a sleep aid was half-hatched; maybe the concept of a numbing of the senses appealed to me. Lying underneath me is a plain composition notebook issued by the ward to make me feel welcome; I have been here for two weeks and three days and it is almost full of poetry scratched out in marker, for pens and pencils are contraband here.
My roommate is leaving today. I try my best to hide my sadness over losing her and remaining in here in Murakami. After this, I will be going to residential; my discharge from this ward will, in turn, be bittersweet. I pull on the same floor-length black velvet skirt that I’ve been wearing for days. It is one of my few physical reminders of France, which I think is for the best.
The stiff white linen of my bed feels stifling. I have few reminders that I am alive in a place like this, so I flip through my notebook, hoping that past lyricism will lend a hand to my revival. I come across a poem from two days ago with the weak recognition of looking at an entry from a year ago. It is an ode written in the middle of a nighttime anxiety attack, to a girl I can only describe as my best friend, but in a way that none of my other close friends are—she is a friend and an unofficial love, someone I haven’t seen in months.
“I seek you out in images of roadkill under cars at night,
and the X-Files on VHS tapes, finding only pieces of you each time.
I have known you by three names and the scent of the dress you gave me.”
Sharing poetry feels necessary to me, especially at this point in life, because it is the only medium that doesn’t feel too removed from my actual thoughts. It feels like saying, “Read my mind. Figure me out.” Like snapshotting memories and perceptions and printing them out for all to see. It has maintained a touch of exhibitionism that always manages to make me feel excited and queasy at once.
I miss many things. This is a severe understatement, almost to the point of being comical, except I’m not laughing. My favorite new thing seems to be saying, “I’m not even supposed to be in here!” But it’s a commonplace cry. It’s almost ritualistic to say it anyway. ♦
Marah
My mind keeps taking me back to the past; I can’t stop comparing how my life was to how it is now. Although I’m not a person who is stuck in her past, and although I try really hard to cope with my present reality, there are moments when some power pulls me back to the past against my will.
The month of Ramadan had always been my favorite time of the year. To me, it was more than just fasting: It was a month of family, love, and affinity. Ramadan used to be a time for families to get together and to share food with those they love. But since the beginning of the war, everything changed, and all of these beautiful details disappeared. Most families are either displaced or have fled the country. 
This year, I tried to recapture some of those moments. I called some relatives of mine, but hearing about their hard circumstances made me more depressed. Connecting with family also reminded me of my father—I miss him a lot, and he is always on my mind. I remember him every time my mother cooks something that he used to like. My mother wants us to celebrate his memory, but also get used to his absence. I understand and appreciate her attempts, but it is just too hard. Everything is depressing this year, even the TV shows. They all address one thing: The Syrian crisis and its impact on people. What an ignorant media! They have no idea what people really need. We live this crisis. We witness fear and misery every day and we absolutely don’t want to watch it over and over again. We borrowed our neighbor’s extra TV to entertain ourselves a little and I only watched comedy.
Since it is finals week, I had to take the week off. The air is very thick in our house. We’ve lost patience. We are very stressed and we let it out on each other. We are lucky to have my mother around; she is the one who keeps us going and keeps us close as a family. She sometimes loses her strength and seems like she will give up, but she always pulls herself together. Because of this great woman, I believe that, despite of all the challenges, my family will stay strong. We are human, and it is natural to have weak moments.
Finally, I want to tell you that I have not been able to focus lately. I open a book to study, I stare at the pages but I don’t see any words. It seems like it is written in a language that I don’t even read. I’ve lost interest in everything, even my cell phone, which I used to spend hours on. I need a solution. I need to regain my energy in order to focus and succeed. Would you please help me?
Marah’s diary is produced in collaboration with Syria Deeply, a digital news outlet covering the Syrian crisis. It was translated from the Arabic by Mais Istanbelli.
Britney
I am drowning. My lungs are filling with the salty Tel Aviv water and I know that the lifeguard can’t see me flailing near the isolated rock formation and my feet can no longer find the ocean’s floor.
I fear death so much when it approaches me, and it always does, never steadily but fast like a hard punch. It makes me the most vulnerable I’ll ever be, because in that moment I am face to face with my mortality, a word that typically bears the same weight as an absentee parent or a long-lost brother. A car out of the corner of my eye, my depression asking me what it would be like to fall six stories, and now, what seems like an inevitability, the waves crashing over my head until I am lost at sea forever—this is when you will catch me at my weakest. 
Funnily enough, this is being published on my 16th birthday. Of course I’d give myself the gift of morbidity on the day of my entrance into the world. The irony is comforting. ♦
Britney
The vocalist of the boy I like’s band sings, “Step back, and over-romanticize,” and my heart skips a beat because the line resonates with me far too much. Is it possible to be nostalgic about the present? Is it possible to neglect current moments to the point of missing out on your own life? Is it possible to live a combination of the two? I am living proof that the answer to all of these questions is a weary “yes.” 
How am I 16? I feel as if I am wasting my life, my adolescence, everything that I idolized years ago. I am constantly disappointing myself; I do not want to live this way. This is my youth, and yet, it feels like borrowed time.
***
I search “dissociation in a foreign country” and “in foreign country nothing feels real” but nothing that could help me comes up. It’s awful—my mind refuses to fully process anything so it feels like everything is a dream, like I’m existing on a separate dimension from everyone else. I’m going to be in France for another month and I don’t know if I can handle this mindset. 
I can’t find comfort in my own skin, or in my own dreams, or in my own thoughts. They have all become menacing—I am an enemy to myself. I am alone in this country. I do not know the family I’m staying with, or the people in the program that I’m in. I get more depressed by the hour. Zoloft, don’t fail me now!
***
I pick at my face and avoid mirrors as often as I can. I think I’ll cut my hair again when I get the chance. My features are beginning to show signs that I’ve entered my 16th year. My thoughts are constantly in French now and that confuses the rest of my body, for it is not used to taking commands from this foreign source. I think about my mother a lot and try not to cry every day. I miss being a child and finding comfort in her arms. I can’t remember how her face looks or how her voice sounds. Every time I try, I get a blur of a memory. My sadness induces nausea. 
Am I ever really present anymore? The glazed look in my eyes says otherwise. I’m even absent in my own writing. Perhaps this is another coping mechanism of mine. I’m reading Breakfast of Champions and now I am very convinced that I was put on this earth for destructive testing, to see how much one human being can take before breaking. I’m breaking, breaking, breaking—going, going, gone. ♦
Britney
Comme un garçon… 
I compare all of my experiences to life in New York or to being in inpatient during 10th grade. I say, “Oh, this reminds me of New York so much.” Or, “This reminds me of when 50 milligrams of Prozac made my hands shake while we played cards in inpatient.” These are my base experiences. 
I don’t know which box to put being a foreign exchange student in. Does it deserve the conception of its own file? Perhaps. If forced to choose between the two, however, I would draw a parallel, not between the safety and protection of the psych ward but my existing in a glass box for all the doctors and visitors and night nurses to see, and the magnifying glass under which I exist here—the oft-tense atmosphere, the uneasiness in my belly. Did you know that I’ve only been in Toulouse for nine days? I didn’t. My mind has been trapped here for years, or so it would seem.
My flaws are on display the way I sometimes photograph my acne or scabs and then blow up the image in order to analyze my imperfections even further than a mirror or my myopic sight will allow me to. There is no beauty in my mistakes, no possibilities for them other than condemnation—except for the romanticization of teenage stupidity, if you choose to go that route. I sound like the very person I never wanted to and never want to become. I sound like the adults who tell me to grow up, who tell me not to be selfish. 
Comme une fille…
My host family and I eat in the middle of a thunderstorm. How surreal. I run through puddles to reach the metro. I write in the journal that my therapist gave me every day. Sometimes I forget to take my meds in the morning. In a time that seemed like many ages ago, because my mind does not know how to process stages in my life well, a boy whose name I kept forgetting kissed me against a staircase and I felt like myself for the first time in a while even though I couldn’t bring myself to think, not yet. 
My memories are all over this borrowed room. I listen to the same album daily. I’m finding myself more than I thought I would this summer and simultaneously disappointing people, but this is not a new development in my life. I try harder and harder every day—I’m curious to see how far my limits extend. New York and I no longer exist in the same world; it is a past life in my mind that I still think about often. The more I understand my mind, the less others do; I’ve said this before, but I’m becoming less comprehensible but it’s too amusing and too much of a relief to feel bad about, like having the answer key to an enigma. I wonder what it will be like to look back on who I am now. Maybe I’m not as odd as I think I am, which would be nice because I’d like my writing and thoughts to be able to resonate with people to some extent. But it’s nice to understand myself so well for once. ♦
Britney
I weigh 52 kg. I ask the nurse what that translates to in pounds and she says she does not know.
I went missing for a day. No one knows where I was; neither do I. My last clear memory is drowsily sitting across from my therapist in her room full of dead roses and brochures. The pieces that somehow fit together: Being in a garden with a boy who told me I was taking too much Klonopin and me reassuring him; losing my French phone somewhere along the way; staring up at this unknown boy as we walked because I kept forgetting what he looked like; him dropping me off at the motto and giving me the most beautiful kiss a boy has ever granted me; him giving me a yellow Post-it with his name on it; going to a flea market on the way to my host family’s house.
The overdose was accidental, although no one believes me. The nurses ask, “Have you tried to kill yourself before? Do you want to commit suicide?” in broken English and I say, “Well, now I do because this entire situation is stupid.” What a smart-ass.
The amount of benzos still tainting my system has turned me into a disgusting mess over the past few days. My hospital linens smell of urine and there are puddles of it all over the room that I don’t remember being there before. I can’t walk properly without tilting over, my eyes are constantly glazed over. I sleep through days. The fullness of my body that was slowly emerging is now gone and I am the same, sickly, broken girl that I was before. Let’s be honest here: this was supposed to be my summer of change, and look where I am. I as might as well be floating in the Garonne the way everyone thought I was when I went missing. ♦
Britney
I don’t have good dreams anymore. My life feels like a considerably better version of Thirteen. I am tired most of the time. I have stopped thinking about former friends, about the girl I once thought I was in love with, about the midday panic attacks, about the boy that I dreamt about and wrote letters to. I don’t know how I feel anymore. Every time someone tells me that I’m getting better, I fear that they are wrong. I’m afraid that I’m slowly destroying my mind and myself. Maybe I’m overreacting. ♦
Britney
I have a boyfriend and for once in my life, my romantic life feels too sacred to mention here. But I will say this: I have not been this happy in years. I think about him every night before I go to sleep. We talk constantly, something I’ve never had in a relationship before. I could write an entire essay about this, full of the clichés I never thought I’d use, but no one (myself included) wants to read that.
I am new. I don’t know exactly when it happened but I was born again and I am such a different person than before that it shocks me. Change sneaks up on you. I cut my hair, I have new friends, my best friend and I have only known each other for two weeks and yet we talk every day and think we’re soul mates and we give each other animal bones. I am Sage now and I feel so much more comfortable in my skin telling people that’s my name. I haven’t felt this liberated in years.
Britney
Every morning I wake up. Am I functioning? Good. That’s all I need at this point in time. 
I don’t talk to many people, I realize. The oddest part is that it doesn’t bother me. I sleep a lot, of course. A classic depressive. 
I have horrible dreams—the worst I’ve ever had. The scariest part is how much of a reflection of my reality they are. I suppress a lot. 
I would like to be warm, I would like to be stable. I would like to not miss deadlines, I would like to write more, would like to spend more time outside of my apartment without feeling like Death’s breath is on my neck.
The emptiness, though. Oh god, the emptiness. Make it end, please. ♦
Britney
How am I alive?
I lie here, sweat clinging to my body like a snug dress under this comforter toward the end of June. The apartment has been dark for most of the day. I cannot see clearly because I lost one of my contacts. I am a majorly depressed bore. Next slide.
In my mind, I am in the bathtub again, my most obvious cry for help; my magnum opus, if you will. Reality brings me the sound of my neighbor’s piano and the crashing of thunder and lightning in the background. It’s too late to call my therapist and it’s too late in the year to call 911 or the hospital; I am supposed to leave the country next week. I also do not think I could handle going back into inpatient, as helpful as it was the first time around. Next.
It is after my early birthday party and I am at a friend’s house, trying to sleep on her bathroom floor. The coldness of the tiles is simultaneously welcoming and uncomfortable. I am too irritable to be in the living room with the other guests who are still awake; it is 6 AM and my mind is only on sleep. In the darkness, I try to imagine that I am at home in my room and that my אמא is in the next room, fast asleep as well. It doesn’t work. I end up running out into the rain for a cab, holding two vases of red roses from a friend. I feel like an outcast at something that happened for and because of me. I feel like a stranger at my own funeral. Earlier in the week I had frequently contemplated Cecilia’s death at her own party in The Virgin Suicides; at the end of the party I had a breakdown in a bedroom and ended up with one half of me dangling outside of a 15th floor window and the other half sobbing into the shoulder of one of my best friends. Now, for the finale:
I don’t know how the future looks. I don’t know how my own future looks. I’m tired of constant agony. I’m tired of having everything I say or write seem like a cry for help. I feel like I am rotting. ♦
Britney
I don’t have good dreams anymore. My life feels like a considerably better version of Thirteen. I am tired most of the time. I have stopped thinking about former friends, about the girl I once thought I was in love with, about the midday panic attacks, about the boy that I dreamt about and wrote letters to. I don’t know how I feel anymore. Every time someone tells me that I’m getting better, I fear that they are wrong. I’m afraid that I’m slowly destroying my mind and myself. Maybe I’m overreacting. ♦
Britney
I have a boyfriend and for once in my life, my romantic life feels too sacred to mention here. But I will say this: I have not been this happy in years. I think about him every night before I go to sleep. We talk constantly, something I’ve never had in a relationship before. I could write an entire essay about this, full of the clichés I never thought I’d use, but no one (myself included) wants to read that.
I am new. I don’t know exactly when it happened but I was born again and I am such a different person than before that it shocks me. Change sneaks up on you. I cut my hair, I have new friends, my best friend and I have only known each other for two weeks and yet we talk every day and think we’re soul mates and we give each other animal bones. I am Sage now and I feel so much more comfortable in my skin telling people that’s my name. I haven’t felt this liberated in years.
Britney
Every morning I wake up. Am I functioning? Good. That’s all I need at this point in time. 
I don’t talk to many people, I realize. The oddest part is that it doesn’t bother me. I sleep a lot, of course. A classic depressive. 
I have horrible dreams—the worst I’ve ever had. The scariest part is how much of a reflection of my reality they are. I suppress a lot. 
I would like to be warm, I would like to be stable. I would like to not miss deadlines, I would like to write more, would like to spend more time outside of my apartment without feeling like Death’s breath is on my neck.
The emptiness, though. Oh god, the emptiness. Make it end, please. ♦
Britney
How am I alive?
I lie here, sweat clinging to my body like a snug dress under this comforter toward the end of June. The apartment has been dark for most of the day. I cannot see clearly because I lost one of my contacts. I am a majorly depressed bore. Next slide.
In my mind, I am in the bathtub again, my most obvious cry for help; my magnum opus, if you will. Reality brings me the sound of my neighbor’s piano and the crashing of thunder and lightning in the background. It’s too late to call my therapist and it’s too late in the year to call 911 or the hospital; I am supposed to leave the country next week. I also do not think I could handle going back into inpatient, as helpful as it was the first time around. Next.
It is after my early birthday party and I am at a friend’s house, trying to sleep on her bathroom floor. The coldness of the tiles is simultaneously welcoming and uncomfortable. I am too irritable to be in the living room with the other guests who are still awake; it is 6 AM and my mind is only on sleep. In the darkness, I try to imagine that I am at home in my room and that my אמא is in the next room, fast asleep as well. It doesn’t work. I end up running out into the rain for a cab, holding two vases of red roses from a friend. I feel like an outcast at something that happened for and because of me. I feel like a stranger at my own funeral. Earlier in the week I had frequently contemplated Cecilia’s death at her own party in The Virgin Suicides; at the end of the party I had a breakdown in a bedroom and ended up with one half of me dangling outside of a 15th floor window and the other half sobbing into the shoulder of one of my best friends. Now, for the finale:
I don’t know how the future looks. I don’t know how my own future looks. I’m tired of constant agony. I’m tired of having everything I say or write seem like a cry for help. I feel like I am rotting. ♦
Britney
Inpatient was my very own Girl, Interrupted; I didn’t realize it until halfway through my stay. There was no girl hoarding chicken carcasses the way Susanna Kaysen told me there would be. Instead there was a girl with paranoid schizophrenia in the room next to me—she would laugh to herself, had a table all to herself during our group sessions, and punched at least one person in the ward a week. And a seventeen year old convinced that she was going to hell, had a bar through the tip of her tongue, and “ROSEMARY” tattooed in giant letters on one of her arms. The latter was the first person I saw when the intake nurse wheeled me into the unit in the dead of night; she was standing in the doorway of her room, grinning deliriously. Her smile carved itself into my brain for the rest of the night, its presence etched into my mind until I woke up bathed in early daylight to the presence of 10 or so doctors at the foot of my bed.
I have no intention of filling up this entry with all the details of my stay. I made friends. I filled page after page of my diary with surprising introspection, and how intensely I missed the Pisces (to whom I wrote a letter, addressed to “the Pisces with blue eyes and fragile skin,” with the words MY HEART IS ON ITS DEATHBED at the top of the page). I stayed up for two days talking to my second roommate—the first was a schizophrenic girl who snored—our hours-long discussions not stopped by the nurses making night rounds, or by the interruption of sunrise. The paranoid schizophrenic girl followed me to my room when I was packing up, screaming about how she should’ve been the one being discharged until a nurse restrained her. I cried when I left. I have not felt the same since.
This diary entry does my stay absolutely no justice. It does my feelings no justice, it does my thoughts no justice. I wish I could list all the people I met, all the experiences I had with them, the small quirks of the ward that simultaneously pissed me off and made me feel like I was in the right place. I miss sitting around a table with all the other kids on medication and comparing our shaking hands. I miss the endless card games. Most of all, I miss how safe I felt. I feel so vulnerable out here, in the real world, and it worsens every day. I have no motivation. My future seems more like impending doom than something to look forward to.
Today on the train, I saw a boy with long brown hair who reminded me of myself so much. It was the way his eyes looked, their blueness tinged with an unmistakable sadness, the way he kept glancing at himself in the window and then letting out soft sighs of frustration. He was so beautiful to me. He reminded me of one of the thoughts I had on my first day of inpatient, when I lay for hours underneath borrowed sheets: I want to be with someone who can recognize what I’m feeling by looking into my eyes, who is sensitive and interesting and actually makes me think. It’s funny how a stranger can bring about a sudden rush of forgotten emotions; I think it mainly has to do with my Cancerian nature, to project so much onto people I don’t or barely know. Everything I think about now, I somehow manage to connect it back to something that has happened in the past week at the hospital, and I hate it. I’m sick of being the type of person who holds onto things so strongly, because in the end, the result tends to be great pain. 
I’m tired. ♦
Britney
“I LEAVE BEFORE BEING LEFT. I DECIDE.” –Jenny Holzer 
I. I haven’t felt anything other than numbness and sorrow for weeks. It is easiest to blame this on the 50 mg of Prozac I must take daily. I smile but I feel nothing. My focus is gone. I fear for the fate of my mind. I am moving farther and farther away from who I used to be; in very few ways, this is good. 
II. I miss my mother. I miss my mother. I miss my mother.
III. People tell me that I will never stop grieving. This is not reassuring. I do everything I can to escape from my own thoughts and it never works.
IV. I write in my diary every day. I write at least one poem a week. I am working on a second inflammatory essay. This disciplined writing is maybe because of the fact that I feel essentially nothing. 
V. I make decisions that I regret on the surface but deep down know were the right ones. I have always had a fear of being the one left behind, being the vulnerable one, and so I leave first. This has helped me live, I’ve concluded.
VI. The end of the school year is approaching. I panic over grades and, for once in my life, long for college. I never thought I would say that but I am truly sick of living this way, of hurting my mind and my work daily, of being around people who make everything worse. I do not want this. ♦
Britney
I find new ways to lose myself; of course, they’re all self destructive, but I’m used to that.
I sit on the floor of the Pisces’ apartment, writing him a letter. “I didn’t know that people still wrote letters,” he says. His hair brushes against his eyes; he’s growing it out, and it makes him look more than ever like Kurt Cobain.
“Well, I do. I wrote you one in inpatient, remember?” We weren’t allowed to have pens or pencils, so I wrote him a letter with “MY HEART IS ON ITS DEATHBED” at the top in a purple marker. I felt like an angsty elementary schooler.
“You should write me more letters. Make this one long so I have something to read before I go to sleep.”
He’s in my dreams a lot. I stare at him far too much but there’s just something about his presence that won’t let me look away. God, I’m a total cliché.
I give him the letter. He grins and I leave. It’s past my curfew so by the time I get back to my neighborhood it’s dark and the trees from the park loom over me; all of this is comforting. I lie on a bench for a few minutes and it feels like home. The irrational part of me wants to fall asleep there. The streets are almost empty so I dance to Alien Sex Fiend and Siouxsie and the Banshees until I get home. I feel warm. ♦
Britney
I lost all the weight I gained after I left inpatient and I once again despise my body, the concaveness of it, the angularity of my face that my guardian comments on when I ask if it looks better fuller. I’ve progressed from writing in lists and ordering paragraphs to writing in a stream of consciousness-like way, and it only distances me even more from everyone else, from anyone who happens to be reading this (hopefully I’m wrong). 
My friend Zach says that he understands why I ended up in inpatient but not why I took 60 mg of melatonin a few days after leaving the ward. He asks me to write a piece explaining it. I have not yet found the words—or perhaps, the motivation—to gather them from my mind and set them down neatly on paper. He’s been helping me a lot but I’m still afraid of myself, of my ability to propel myself down the slope that I’ve been on for the past year. He describes me as a pure person, a martyr, and it makes me cry. I am like a sponge, soaking up all the pain around me and in my life into my pores—I’ve always been that way. I’d cry incessantly whenever I saw or heard something sad as a child. My form of healing others was understanding their hardships and transferring their hurt to myself. It’s only gotten worse since then. There is so much inside of me that no one will ever understand. It’s hard to believe that I can even still function. 
I’m going into partial hospitalization at the same place I was for inpatient; I’ll finish out the semester there. I visited it for the first time today and recognized it; it had been in my dreams before. I did not mention this. I mumbled through the intake process. I do not want to go. I truly do not. My ideal life for the rest of this month would be staying at home, working on my writing, my art, doing anything that would make me feel alive again. 
“I’m a loser, baby, so why don’t you kill me?”
I feel useless when I see that all my friends are in school. The only other person I know who is even close to being in the same boat as me is the Pisces, and that’s a tie that I have severed for the good of my own mental health; the companionship was not worth the isolation from my friends, the continuous self-destruction, the slow unraveling of my self. I believe the beginning of that relationship is truly when this downward spiral—not to be confused with the several other downward spirals in my life—began, and I hate to think about it, but as an obsessive thinker, it’s all I do. 
I don’t cut myself but I like to watch myself bleed. An accidental slip of the knife, the jabbing of a finger into some sharp object—it delights me. I accidentally stabbed my finger with my pocket knife at a flea market and bled all over the streets as I walked home. It makes me recall wanting nosebleeds as a kid because I thought they were the coolest thing ever. I can’t explain this. My therapist told me to write down one thing every day that makes me happy; maybe, sadly, this is it. 
Zach asked me on Sunday if I want to live, and without hesitation I said yes. I meant it so, so much. If he asked me again now…well, I don’t have to finish that thought. ♦
Britney
1. When I was in the tub, through a Xanax and Ambien induced haze, I came across two brothers on a path; Cain and Abel, perhaps? Shrouded by death, they tell me to go back, go back, not yet. I sink deeper, and the burning sensation of the water flooding my body propels me forward, leaving me gasping in the middle of the bath, shaking and fragile. 
2. I realize that all I do now is compile my thoughts through lists. I’ve become less interested in focusing on a single moment and more involved in stringing together the pieces of my life each day, each week. It brings me comfort.
3. I’ve met a Pisces who does not have my Cancerian moodiness and understands the feeling of not being able to get out of bed for school, and hating Prozac, and existing within a void, and constantly searching for people who can understand you—who are willing to listen no matter how abnormal your feelings and thoughts may seem. 
4. A task to complete as soon as possible: clean out my room, create space for an altar, surround myself with figurines and pictures and symbols that make me feel completely comfortable and safe, that let my internal world imprint on my external environment.
5. One of my best friends and I make a pact to spend the summer after senior year in the Midwest. We believe that we share a past life that nobody else understands when we try to explain it to them. We’ve met just once in person, and yet we seem to share a soul. 
6. There are scratches and open wounds all over my body; they are unintentional. I seem to attack myself during my sleep. My restless subconscious takes out my issues on my flesh. 
7. I think of my mother every single day but I am happy. Memories no longer consume me to the point of immobility. For once, I feel whole, or almost whole. Things are getting better; I can say this with absolute assurance. ♦
Britney
I. I listen to Teen Suicide and “Bull in the Heather” on repeat, whether I am walking the dogs or staring out of my window, crying, hoping the release of my tears will somehow soothe the aching in my chest. “Cherub Rock” reminds me of the Pisces. I blanket myself in songs that call him to mind even though I know how dangerous that is. Music has always provided me with solace; now it’s making me more confused than ever. Attaching songs to people is dangerous, I realize, and yet I still do it. I never learn. My mother used to tell me that. “You never learn, Britney,” she’d say disapprovingly. She was right, in a sense.
II. My anxiety levels have gone down. I do not have panic attacks. I do not shake on public transit and dissociate on the way to school. Yet I worry about the future, about things not working out the way I want them to, so much that it’s consumed me. I wear a coat of apprehension throughout everything. People tell me to focus on myself and I can’t. I can’t, I can’t, I can’t.
III. I’ve morphed so much in the space of a few months—internally and externally—that it’s incredible. I can’t even begin to sum it all up here but I wish I could because there have been so many significant changes. I never thought that I’d be at this point. I never thought that any of this would happen to me. “It’s like we’re in a movie,” the Pisces said when he came over.
IV. The Pisces tells me to look at him. Our staring contests have become a quick ritual. His eyes change from green to the color of the ocean. He tells me that my eyes are black. It would be best if I stopped thinking about him.
V. I’ve become less relatable. I don’t know how that makes me feel.
VI. I am my own hell. ♦
Britney
I want to vomit every day. I am always numb. Nothing ever feels completely real. I am always grasping for something more, something unattainable, something that maybe doesn’t even exist. I am sick of adults telling me that it will get better. I am sick of being in a state of perpetual waiting. I don’t know what to do anymore. I don’t know what to write. ♦
Britney
These are things that I need to keep in mind, that the rational part of my brain has come up with:
1. Do not talk to the Pisces. Do not hurt yourself over someone that you briefly trusted and thought you had found something in. Face the reality of your situation and don’t allow yourself to be caught up in the promises of someone’s past words, of the way they once looked at you. You deserve better, Britney. Move on. Move on. Move on.
2. This summer, I will be getting on a plane for the first time. I will be leaving the country where I’ve grown—slowly, and then all at once, for almost 16 years—for over a month, to go to Israel and then France. I can’t drag along the things that are bringing me down. Every summer I think that I will become a new person and end up coming out with more baggage than I started with. I cannot force certain changes but I can make an effort not to dwell in nostalgia, not to be my own anchor. 
3. Stop catastrophizing. The people I love the most have taught me this and it’s up to me to actually do it. I’m trying, which I’m proud of. I’m sick and tired of being sick and tired and I’m sick and tired of constantly returning to my comfort place of absolute depression. I don’t want to be sad when I don’t need to be sad. 
“I miss the comfort in being sad.” Sadness was a kind of escape for me that ended up morphing into a crutch over the past few years, even more so in the past few months. I hate being trapped underneath its weight. I need to find ways out in order to save myself. 
4. I miss my mother. This isn’t something that I need to keep in mind, not like everything else. She visits me in my dreams sometimes, but it’s always so hazy that I can’t fully see her face, can’t hear her voice. I tell my therapist that I am afraid of the people that I care about—the woman I’ve grown to refer to as my mother when I introduce her to people and even in my own mind, the woman that I live with, the woman that I confide in every day and look forward to seeing every time I leave my house to go to school—dying, disappearing on me, of the the prospect of life without them. I think about this every day and it’s a horrible feeling. My therapist tells me that it is a result of trauma. It’s anxiety finding new ways to manifest itself within me. I know the cause and yet I still cannot remedy the symptoms. 
5. Don’t dwell on small things that have no effect on you. In other words, stop blowing things out of proportion. Stop working against yourself. You’ll feel a lot better when you do. ♦
Lilly
I’m tired of setbacks. I’m tired of playing injured. I’m tired of not being able to play because I’m injured. I’m tired of soreness, and getting sick at inopportune times, and being told, “It could be a couple of weeks before you’re ready to play again.” I’m tired of the universe doing its damnedest to hold me back. And I’m tired of fighting it, but I’m not giving up on that. 
Watching my team from the sidelines is unimaginably frustrating: I see runs I could have made, passes I could have intercepted, goals I could have scored had I only been on the field with them. But the heavy black brace on my right ankle keeps me shackled to the bench.
At this point it’s a question of fitness. It’s a question of whether I’m willing to put in the work this summer so that I can play at full strength in the fall. It’s a question of how far I can push myself before next spring so that I can have the season of my life to cap off my senior year. And it’s a question that only I have the answer to. ♦
Britney
1. When I was in the tub, through a Xanax and Ambien induced haze, I came across two brothers on a path; Cain and Abel, perhaps? Shrouded by death, they tell me to go back, go back, not yet. I sink deeper, and the burning sensation of the water flooding my body propels me forward, leaving me gasping in the middle of the bath, shaking and fragile. 
2. I realize that all I do now is compile my thoughts through lists. I’ve become less interested in focusing on a single moment and more involved in stringing together the pieces of my life each day, each week. It brings me comfort.
3. I’ve met a Pisces who does not have my Cancerian moodiness and understands the feeling of not being able to get out of bed for school, and hating Prozac, and existing within a void, and constantly searching for people who can understand you—who are willing to listen no matter how abnormal your feelings and thoughts may seem. 
4. A task to complete as soon as possible: clean out my room, create space for an altar, surround myself with figurines and pictures and symbols that make me feel completely comfortable and safe, that let my internal world imprint on my external environment.
5. One of my best friends and I make a pact to spend the summer after senior year in the Midwest. We believe that we share a past life that nobody else understands when we try to explain it to them. We’ve met just once in person, and yet we seem to share a soul. 
6. There are scratches and open wounds all over my body; they are unintentional. I seem to attack myself during my sleep. My restless subconscious takes out my issues on my flesh. 
7. I think of my mother every single day but I am happy. Memories no longer consume me to the point of immobility. For once, I feel whole, or almost whole. Things are getting better; I can say this with absolute assurance. ♦
Britney
I. I listen to Teen Suicide and “Bull in the Heather” on repeat, whether I am walking the dogs or staring out of my window, crying, hoping the release of my tears will somehow soothe the aching in my chest. “Cherub Rock” reminds me of the Pisces. I blanket myself in songs that call him to mind even though I know how dangerous that is. Music has always provided me with solace; now it’s making me more confused than ever. Attaching songs to people is dangerous, I realize, and yet I still do it. I never learn. My mother used to tell me that. “You never learn, Britney,” she’d say disapprovingly. She was right, in a sense.
II. My anxiety levels have gone down. I do not have panic attacks. I do not shake on public transit and dissociate on the way to school. Yet I worry about the future, about things not working out the way I want them to, so much that it’s consumed me. I wear a coat of apprehension throughout everything. People tell me to focus on myself and I can’t. I can’t, I can’t, I can’t.
III. I’ve morphed so much in the space of a few months—internally and externally—that it’s incredible. I can’t even begin to sum it all up here but I wish I could because there have been so many significant changes. I never thought that I’d be at this point. I never thought that any of this would happen to me. “It’s like we’re in a movie,” the Pisces said when he came over.
IV. The Pisces tells me to look at him. Our staring contests have become a quick ritual. His eyes change from green to the color of the ocean. He tells me that my eyes are black. It would be best if I stopped thinking about him.
V. I’ve become less relatable. I don’t know how that makes me feel.
VI. I am my own hell. ♦
Britney
I want to vomit every day. I am always numb. Nothing ever feels completely real. I am always grasping for something more, something unattainable, something that maybe doesn’t even exist. I am sick of adults telling me that it will get better. I am sick of being in a state of perpetual waiting. I don’t know what to do anymore. I don’t know what to write. ♦
Britney
These are things that I need to keep in mind, that the rational part of my brain has come up with:
1. Do not talk to the Pisces. Do not hurt yourself over someone that you briefly trusted and thought you had found something in. Face the reality of your situation and don’t allow yourself to be caught up in the promises of someone’s past words, of the way they once looked at you. You deserve better, Britney. Move on. Move on. Move on.
2. This summer, I will be getting on a plane for the first time. I will be leaving the country where I’ve grown—slowly, and then all at once, for almost 16 years—for over a month, to go to Israel and then France. I can’t drag along the things that are bringing me down. Every summer I think that I will become a new person and end up coming out with more baggage than I started with. I cannot force certain changes but I can make an effort not to dwell in nostalgia, not to be my own anchor. 
3. Stop catastrophizing. The people I love the most have taught me this and it’s up to me to actually do it. I’m trying, which I’m proud of. I’m sick and tired of being sick and tired and I’m sick and tired of constantly returning to my comfort place of absolute depression. I don’t want to be sad when I don’t need to be sad. 
“I miss the comfort in being sad.” Sadness was a kind of escape for me that ended up morphing into a crutch over the past few years, even more so in the past few months. I hate being trapped underneath its weight. I need to find ways out in order to save myself. 
4. I miss my mother. This isn’t something that I need to keep in mind, not like everything else. She visits me in my dreams sometimes, but it’s always so hazy that I can’t fully see her face, can’t hear her voice. I tell my therapist that I am afraid of the people that I care about—the woman I’ve grown to refer to as my mother when I introduce her to people and even in my own mind, the woman that I live with, the woman that I confide in every day and look forward to seeing every time I leave my house to go to school—dying, disappearing on me, of the the prospect of life without them. I think about this every day and it’s a horrible feeling. My therapist tells me that it is a result of trauma. It’s anxiety finding new ways to manifest itself within me. I know the cause and yet I still cannot remedy the symptoms. 
5. Don’t dwell on small things that have no effect on you. In other words, stop blowing things out of proportion. Stop working against yourself. You’ll feel a lot better when you do. ♦
Lilly
I’m tired of setbacks. I’m tired of playing injured. I’m tired of not being able to play because I’m injured. I’m tired of soreness, and getting sick at inopportune times, and being told, “It could be a couple of weeks before you’re ready to play again.” I’m tired of the universe doing its damnedest to hold me back. And I’m tired of fighting it, but I’m not giving up on that. 
Watching my team from the sidelines is unimaginably frustrating: I see runs I could have made, passes I could have intercepted, goals I could have scored had I only been on the field with them. But the heavy black brace on my right ankle keeps me shackled to the bench.
At this point it’s a question of fitness. It’s a question of whether I’m willing to put in the work this summer so that I can play at full strength in the fall. It’s a question of how far I can push myself before next spring so that I can have the season of my life to cap off my senior year. And it’s a question that only I have the answer to. ♦
Britney
I find myself disappointed in things that should make me want to live. I’m unappreciative of my girlfriend, of conversations with people who I often find comfort in, of the fact that I finally have a therapist. My guardian tells me that being angry at myself for feelings I can’t control will only worsen the depression that I try to suffocate with fluoxetine and weekly trips to the hospital. This is true, but my acknowledgement of this does me no good. I still feel too anxious to sit for a full class period or do homework, too sad to talk to my girlfriend or get out of bed to make a cup of coffee. I try to pull myself out of these episodes of wanting to melt into my bedsheets and never speak to anyone again, but they always seem to come back, and stronger each time. My thought process is as muddled as my emotions. ♦
Britney
There’s a consistently empty feeling that has been biting at me recently, and that hasn’t been quelled by medication or friends or anything. I dig up old rituals, talk to old friends, go to new places, and do things I have never done before, all in an attempt to fill whatever void I may have unintentionally created. Sad isn’t synonymous with empty at all; I don’t feel much sorrow anymore, but that does not change the fact that something is off. I’m getting better but losing my grasp on certain parts of my life at the same time. I feel so much more secure in my personality, my ideas, my thoughts, my goals, and yet something is wrong. I wouldn’t be surprised if this was just me making a big deal out of nothing, as always. ♦
Britney
I. My hair smells like the clay that stained my fingers with its scent in art class when I was younger. I think of you.
II. I listen to “Cherub Rock” and it makes me think of freshman year. For the first time in a while, I feel it, like, REALLY feel it. When I watched the video for it before school last year in the living room of my old apartment, I thought my heart would burst out of my chest.
III. It is warm out, to my surprise. I am wearing your brown flannel. I know I will have to give it back later, but it was enough to smell you as I slept.
IV. I wish we could go to Enchantments together today. I cried every day of September after we broke up. I had night terrors for a week. I’m not kidding when I say I think you’re a witch, an absolute enchantress. Your grip on me refuses to falter, and that makes me incredibly overjoyed.
Britney
I. You are the seraph in the corner of my eye, always.
II. I don’t want to be a lonely soul. I bleed from the inside. It is the Spring Equinox yet winter still bears down on the city outside my frosted window.
III. The metal of your braces is beautiful. “ANGEL” is embroidered on my chest in white. I cling to small details; they keep me grounded.
IV. I think about making a blood pact with you. I have Natural Born Killers on the brain. It reminds me of how morbid I used to be. What happened? I can’t tell if I’ve been dulled or reformed.
V. I ask you if we can go to a forest when it is warm. In my mind, we exist separate from the world, the way everything else that I love comes to exist. I don’t understand certain parts of my life anymore so this is one thing that I can keep sacred, that won’t confuse me and won’t burden me. I feel free with you. ♦
Britney
The hospital is familiar to me not only because the room to my right is the one where my mother spent her last few days, or because the one across the wing is where I first saw her when she initially came here, but because it was in my dream this morning. I don’t want to think about the dream at all—not while I am here in the hospital, and not while I am writing this—but I do. In it, my mom died, and then strangely enough, after I screamed at the doctors to revive her, she came back to life.
It was terrifyingly realistic. I remember being excited and telling her everything that I had wanted to in real life, starting with the Mac DeMarco concert I went to and never got the chance to talk to her about. Waking up was the worst feeling in the world. It was an unexpected and all too real reminder that she couldn’t magically come back to life—that I couldn’t happily let her know all of the big and small things that have happened.
I don’t want to be in the hospital, but I am here to get her bag. The nurses can’t find it, and I feel my heart sink as they tell me to come back another day. I can’t come back here; I can’t come back to the hematology/oncology wing and stand as if I don’t remember seeing my mom in one of these rooms. The wetness at my eyelids tells me that there are tears threatening to spill out, but I am sick of crying in front of people. None of this feels real, and yet, it is. I walk out.
***
I don’t know what my future looks like anymore. I am afraid of myself—of the power that I somehow didn’t realize I hold over my own life. My lack of motivation is especially startling. I try to propel myself into new things and push myself toward new projects and people, but it always feel forced. I no longer feel a natural pull to create work and become the best person that I can be. Everything is an act. I am always afraid of failure. The prospect gnaws at me, but that dread does nothing to help me. 
My guidance counselor tells me that, at this point, my life can go in one of two different directions. People constantly tell me that I will be successful. I keep this in mind, yet I feel more and more lost, like I’m traveling down the wrong road. Sometimes I fear that it will never end despite others’ encouragement, reassurance, and belief in me. For once, I am more afraid of letting myself down that I am of disappointing others. ♦
Britney
Nighttime is a chamber of reflection—a fact that I no longer take comfort in. I am always too afraid to sleep; even when I do, I wake up every few hours, jolted by my own mind. The wind shrieks outside of the window of my new room every night, and closing my eyes with the lights off wracks my body with anxiety: I constantly think that I heard something, or saw something in the corner. I get four hours of sleep at most. I am a shell of a shell of my former self. ♦
Britney
I despise how my face looks so much that it literally makes me hate my life. Out of everything that has happened to me, I find it funny in the saddest of ways that this is what hurts me the most. I don’t like bringing it up or telling others because I feel like I am exposing the most vulnerable part of me to them, and I hate having visible weak spots, but it is something that presses on my mind to no end. It’s the one thing that I feel completely hopeless about, and that makes me feel furious and sad and all sorts of other negative things that I’d rather not be feeling, especially now. 
I don’t like wanting to punch my reflection the way that at least one angsty teen protagonist has done in some movie. I don’t like feeling the most dreadful kind of jealousy when people come up to my friends and me in public and tell them how beautiful they are while I idle in the background, feeling like I did in middle school when I tried to keep a straight face as people told me how ugly I was. I pass by windows and try not to cry when I see my face looking back at me. 
I feel a dull pain in my stomach when people try to convince me that my feelings are irrational, because as much as I’d like to believe them, I know how wrong they are. It’s something that has bothered me for years. It has only gotten worse and worse as I’ve gotten older and not blossomed into the beautiful young lady that everyone has lead me to believe I’d become. In fact, I didn’t even become cool enough to compensate for my looks. I’m just…here. I hate it, and to a certain extent, I hate me. ♦
Britney
I feel like an inadequate student and an inadequate girlfriend—a person who was told they were special all their life and ended up achieving mediocrity. I disappoint myself every day. 
People say that I am committing the crime of creating self-fulfilling prophecies by telling myself negative messages that pull down any chances of my doing well or being a better person. I’ve always considered myself to be a realist, but I can’t help but think that I’m playing a part in bringing myself down, that I’m creating some kind of weight and chaining it to my thoughts. I’ll figure it out. ♦
Britney
I feel like I spend all of my time talking about my overwhelming sadness or how in love I am, and that scares me. It makes me feel less whole, like those are the only two parts of me. Whenever I sit down to write about my week, they are the only two topics that come to mind. It feels really unhealthy. 
I’ve been trying to make myself more independent of this situation—to get back into having other interests and finding motivation to actually live again and to write more and to go places. I am sick of packing up the things in my apartment. I am sick of feeling immense heaviness, and of having to lean on my feelings for someone else in order to feel like life isn’t horrible. It’s exactly what I’ve never wanted to become, and I often think about the fact that I’ve given in to this role so easily with great unease. I’m in limbo when it comes to trusting myself, and I need to fix that as soon as possible. I just need to figure out where to start. ♦
Britney
“My chronic feelings of emptiness and boredom came from the fact that I was living a life based on my incapacities, which were numerous.” -Susanna Kaysen, Girl, Interrupted
The loudness is what terrifies me the most about the situation. As soon as the lights shut off and images begin flashing on the screen, it crashes down on me, a wave of sound drowning me. I come out of the fetal position that I’d contorted my body into on one of the plush chairs in the very back corner of the theater and look around frantically, trying to see if anyone else realizes that it is too loud in the room, that someone needs to tell whoever is in control to turn it down, but unsurprisingly, I am alone in my shock. Everyone else seems fine as they either continue talking to whoever came with them to see the movie or eating, their eyes fixated on the flashing pictures as their hands move mechanically to their waiting, open mouths. The room is small. I am close in proximity to everyone here and yet I still feel a strong absence of human contact. The girl that was supposed to see this with me did not show up and I am all alone and it is then that I realize that I have not been to a movie theater since what as might as well of been ages ago, on July 8, with my mother for my birthday. There are tears in my eyes as the trailers play, and I can’t tell if it’s because she’s not there or because the girl isn’t there, and then I decide that it could be both, but it doesn’t matter either way. There is a severe feeling of unwantedness that gnaws at my chest as I try to assimilate to the actions of the other people in the room and watch the screen quietly, letting its strong glow pull me in.
After the movie ends, I am eating lunch when the girl tells me that she was late but is still in the area if I want to meet up. I’m not surprised; I tell her that I’m going home and walk to the F train, an action that feels unfamiliar even though I did it every day up until recently. I am a professional out of practice. The train has not arrived yet, so I stand on the platform, waiting for a few minutes, when suddenly, something inside my mind switches. I don’t know what it is, and the only two things I can liken it to are a cloud of murkiness and depersonalization, although the last comparison is severely flawed. It feels a lot like depersonalization in the sense that I am no longer in my body and am watching from the outside, but I still know it’s me. It’s most comparable to when you’re in a dream, and you can see everything that is happening to you from a bird’s-eye view. I hear the train coming and see its familiar lights on the dirty tiled wall of the subway, and when it happens, I begin walking towards the edge of the platform. It feels normal, like I am walking down the street, and the suddenly, when I am about to step off, I snap out of it and pull my body back, shaking. This is what causes me to look up “involuntary suicide attempt” later on (the search yielded no real results but I’m sure it’s happened to at least a few other people). I am scared when I realize what I am doing and I am scared later on, thinking and writing about the experience, because I don’t understand it at all. I think my life is, in laymen’s terms, pretty much garbage, but not enough for me to actually want to kill myself. Even when I think about it, it is still a passing thought, nothing that I would ever actually want to do, so it terrifies me that that happened, and it makes me incredibly uneasy to think about the fact that my body, for a few minutes, was able to control my mind.
When I get home, I tell the girl about what happened, with great hesitation (but of course, the need for release overrules the wariness). She tells me that I will get better. Someone insists that I will get better at least once a week, tells me with an almost convincing smile that soon my life will be great and that my mind will be stable and I may even be happy. It’s almost like a game at this point; I tell someone about my life and they tell me not to worry and I say OK and they believe that I am taking their words into account. It’s a trope. I still tell it to myself every day, though, and mentally make very short lists of things to look forward to (warm weather, being put on the antidepressants that I’ve needed for years), and hope that in a few months I won’t have to constantly remind myself of reasons why I should feel good about life, or feel untethered, floating around in a sea of my emotions, spilling how I feel to anyone who will listen. I miss not feeling either empty or full of a toxic mix of anger and sadness. ♦
Marah
I would like to start this diary entry with a moment of silence for the victims of the crisis in Syria, which has seen hideous death and pain. We have lost too many, and we would drown in tears if we were to count them all.
The last four years have been odd beyond imagination. No one could have predicted these strange years of sad Syrian history, as the whole world watched passively, and just waited for what was coming next, with its arms folded.
Now it’s a new year, and we don’t know what’s in store for us. We cannot predict it, because the balance of life is disrupted. Smiling faces in the street, traditional Christmas cookies, the delightful Christmas trees full of bells: All these things used to symbolize happiness, and perhaps these symbols could be restored. I feel very sad about Santa Claus, who turned from being a symbol of hope and goodness into a symbol of horror, and the gifts of Christmas Eve were bombs raining on children’s beds, taking their lives and killing their innocent childish dreams. I’m sorry for the redness of Santa’s outfit, as it became a symbol of all the bloodshed. It hurts my heart to see how everything has changed. How did this happen?! 
When I was a little girl, New Year’s Eve was a very special occasion. I used to wait for Santa Claus to put a gift under my pillow. It’s not our Eid to celebrate, but my mom seized joy wherever it was, and she always brought some of it home. I used to look forward to this day, as we used to go to Al-Hamidiyah market to watch Santa Claus standing at the gate giving out candies and balloons. At the end of the market, Umayyad mosque stood tall and proud, and on its right was the Goldsmiths market, which used to be bustling with Jewish people. Close to it there was the area of Bab Touma, where Christians mostly lived. There was also the Lady Ruqayya mosque, which is a shrine for the Shiites. All the shops in the market celebrated, and this gave the impression that Eid was for everyone, and you could feel the harmony between people of different religions to the extent that you couldn’t tell the difference between them. We’ve always shared their joys, and they’ve shared ours. We respected their religions, and they respected ours. I remember going back home filled with happiness and joy with a Santa hat on my head, thinking thoughts of peace and love. This night was also my father’s birthday, so my mom made sweets and we all sat together and filled the place with laughter in the wonderful candlelight.
What distorted our religion with all the killing and horrors? What drew a red line between it and other religions? Sectarianism was spread among us, although we’re all humans and all living in Syria. We were born to build on this earth, not defile it. How terrible and dangerous that is! Sometimes I can’t believe what happened, and still is happening. Everything around us has changed, or maybe it’s us who changed. We have become very different people from who we used to be. We love what we hated, and maybe hate what we loved, to the extent that we forgot what we once clung to, and our principles are gone.
With the beginning of 2015, let’s allow ourselves to reflect on the old days. Let’s take a look at the past four years and wonder, Were we winning or losing? Of course, and without hesitation, we were losing, but what did we lose? Our losses are limitless, we lost the lives of many, a lot of us are physically or psychologically disabled, our youth lost their dreams, our children lost their smiles. We live a life without hope, our days have no future, there is disintegration, dispersion and homelessness. The most precious thing we lost was our humanity and our self-respect, for we will realize that we’ve been fighting each other only when it’s too late, when Syria sinks in great pain and with deep wounds, and Syrians have lost their dignity and their lives. How harsh fate has been to Syria! 
I will do what I used to do when I was little: I will close my eyes and wish for a new year in which the lost humanity will find its way back to being human. Let’s all hope the first days of this year will be the beginning of the end of this overwhelming mess inside and around us. Let’s all clean our hearts and minds to find peace, and to live a decent life.
Will my wish for this year come true? Or will it remain only a dream? I don’t know. ♦
Marah’s diary is produced in collaboration with Syria Deeply, a digital news outlet covering the Syrian crisis. It was translated from the Arabic by Mais Istanbelli.
Britney
Some things that have been weighing me down so much that they’ve manifested at the root of my insides and created a physical pain that I feel all day, every day…in list form, of course, because finals week doesn’t allow for much free time:
1. Night terrors, coupled with my suddenly loose grip on reality, which I still can’t explain, as it happened recently and without warning. Everything is distorted in a horrible, Lynchian sort of way. The worst episode was yesterday, when I fell asleep without realizing and spent the entire time swimming in a murky gray-blackness until I woke up screaming. I might be having nightmares and forgetting them. It might be for the best. I already feel like I’m in a literal hell on earth—an unexplainable dreamscape that I just want out of immediately. 
2. Finals. Try not being able to pay attention in any class for months and then having to turn in essays and sit taking tests based on material you never learned for three hours. An even better feeling, obviously, is being yelled at about this. 
3. Feeling unwanted. Some things are too complicated to elaborate on, and this is one of them. It’s even worse now that I don’t have a main source of unconditional love and moral support. I try not to think about this too often, but I do, every minute of each day.
4. Displacement. I have no real home and I’m tired of moving around and I’m tired of talking to people who “might” take me in and I’m tired of where I am now. I’m just so tired of everything. ♦
