Kiana
This week, I’ve been thinking about the possibility of going back to school. The possibility of a fresh start and, in my case, a second fresh start.
My grandmother told me to return to academia now because “one never knows” when she’ll “depart from this realm.” Since she is the one financing my college education, she’s afraid I won’t be able to graduate once she’s gone. She’s all I have, really. I reflected on what she said for a whole night and got all anxious about it. The following day, I set my decisions on the ground and let them run with me.
I’ve been eyeing a fine arts college near my place and went there four days ago to ask for the course overview. I got interested in the Visual Communication major, since it involves photography, and photography is my second true love, next to writing. As anxious as I am, I did not enroll right away and excused the delay in enrolling as time to think things through. Long story short, I did not enroll in that fine arts college.
I keep assuring myself that there’s nothing wrong with me, but I know the solution will come only once I acknowledge the problem. I know this. Yet, somehow, I don’t appear to know the point of applying this truth to my own life. I’m all brainwork and mindwork; I don’t generate enough energy or vibe or force to bring to life what I have learned and thought about. What is wrong with me?
This delusion—of my being ready to go back to school—is crippling me. I know that. Yet, somehow, I keep going, keep waking up to another day, keep drinking the usual morning coffee, keep reading the same pages of my journal, keep going to work, keep breathing. Rinse, repeat. 
When did I learn to stop living? Since when did I not have a life?
I torment myself so much with all this brainwork. I guess there are things in life that do not require deep, philosophical thinking. Sometimes you just have to take one leap of faith; let the disk of risk run its course; trust blindly and head into the void. Rinse, repeat. ♦
Cammy
I’m having a really hard time pinpointing how I’ve been feeling. I’ve been trying to sum up how everything has been going lately and it’s just not easy. I think that I just need to be with my friends more. I think I’ve been feeling lonely and disconnected because of everything that’s been going on. I feel guilty about not spending time with my friends which is bad because I usually can’t help it. Things just haven’t been normal, and there’s not really a way to describe why that is. 
It’s fair to say that I’m doing better at least, but maybe this way I’ve been isn’t actually an improvement. Seeing a certain person can turn my day way down, to the point where I’m not talking and doing regular work seems pointless. I’ve been trying new things but still, I just don’t feel like myself. It’s weird and scary. I don’t like how other people can have such a negative influence on my life. 
I want to be more like me again. It’s hard to just put this stuff away. Usually if something is wrong at home I can forget about it at school, but now there are issues at home and at school and I don’t get a break. I honestly don’t even like talking about everything that’s going wrong because doing so only makes things harder. ♦
Simone
Don’t be nervous. Stop telling yourself that he regrets ever going near you. He doesn’t. But he might if you keep being a neurotic, nervous prick.
Stop avoiding looking toward that side of the room because he’s sitting over there. Stop wondering if you look bad from his vantage point. You’re too hard on yourself. And if you do look bad, he shouldn’t care, and won’t, because it’s just his vantage point and no real reflection of you. He knows that, and you know that: Stop being an idiot.
Don’t spend your every moment in the halls worrying if you’ll pass him and if your voice will go high when you say “hi,” or if you’ll even say “hi” at all. Stop fretting that you will have to initiate the greeting yourself. Do allow yourself to pass him without saying anything, because sometimes, that just happens. It’s a hallway. It’s no indicator of his feelings or your feelings or anything really.
Stop thinking about him so damn much. Divert these passionate energies toward your school work and squat routines.
When you are ready, talk to him. He will be willing and only good things will come of it. First, you really need to calm down. Like a whole fucking lot. And you will, just with time.
Remind yourself all of these things, all of the time, until you actually begin to believe them. ♦
Fall is right around the corner, I think for Halloween I’ll dress up as a cereal killer…pun intended. —Isabella Acosta.
Alyson
It’s hard to believe that a world that thrives completely on creativity and the arts exists unless you are living in it. It’s even harder to be happily creative once you have lived in it and are then sucked away from it (until next summer, I guess). Even god doesn’t kick people out of heaven, right? Read More »
Lilly
I’m still about two weeks out from surgery, but I am already trying to begin the act of healing. I’m eating better, stretching more, drinking enough water. I’m stacking heavier weight on my shoulders and pulling kilometer after kilometer on an old rowing machine in the school gym. Read More »
Steffany
I’m not sure what self-care means. I’m not even sure if I’m doing it right. However, since starting college, I’ve been going out of my way to put myself first. I used to do everything for my friends: I was a shoulder to cry on or someone to edit your school papers. I’m no longer doing any of that. As of now, I am my own biggest concern, and while I feel selfish at times, it feels oh so good. Oftentimes, black women are made to believe that we have to be superhuman, but I’m not going to carry the burdens of others on my back when they don’t bother to do the same for me. 
Juggling schoolwork and life has been OK, but mixing in things I enjoy makes life easier. I’m reading Grace Jones’ autobiography. It’s excellent and wild; she’s lived an extraordinary life. I’ve also been watching all my British dramas and BBC documentaries. I binge watched Whitechapel: shoutout to DI Chandler, DS Miles, and Ed Buchan. I’m waiting for Endeavour to come back. Last season, Detective Constable Morse had a black boo thing. She’s a nurse but she mainly looks after him, which lends itself to boring storylines. I mean, this woman is a black nurse in Oxford during the ’60s and the best they can see for her character is someone to buy him a scarf and make him tea? I think not. I hope they kick it up a notch this season. 
I barely ever cook, but I made myself a nice steak with sauteed onions the other night. I deserve it! I’ve also been trying to perfect my twistouts. Zadie Smith is coming to my college tonight and I don’t want my hair flying all over my head when she goes to sign my books. I seem to be the only person at my school excited about it! I heard she’s writing screenplays, but I’d love if she did a short story collection. I admire writers so much for what they do. It seems so alien to me—to want to be a writer—which is weird, because aren’t I one? I don’t feel as if I can call myself one. Whereas, all the journalism and creative writing majors do so here. They call themselves writers with such pride. I don’t talk about my writing at all in my day-to-day life. I can’t quite pinpoint why that is. ♦
Thahabu
I’ve been thinking about the past: advice my dad has given me; sketchy adventures with my friends Leah and Madison; and old favorite movies. I rewatched She’s Gotta Have It with a friend this weekend. I was probably 14 when I first saw it, and still too innocent to understand the overall theme and many innuendos. Watching it now, I noticed how much I can relate to Nola Darling, the carefree protagonist. 
Nola pretty much lives as she likes and does what she wants. She doesn’t think there’s anything wrong with her and actually sees her actions and pretty sexual lifestyle as what keeps her sane. “Some people call me a freak…I don’t believe in it,” she says. But later in the movie, one of her lovers convinces her that she’s sick and needs to see a therapist to change her “unhealthy” habits. Nola goes to a therapist. She and the professional decide she is not, in fact, sick. Despite this, Nola still tries to change herself to please another of her lovers. She learns that no matter how much people ostracize her, she cannot be what anyone else wants her to be, and she loves it. 
When I was 13 and 14, and again at 16 and 18, I was at my happiest. I was Nola Darling at the end of She’s Gotta Have It (minus her habit). For the past year, I’ve been trying to figure out why I haven’t been able to feel a semblance of that self-assurance and contentedness. After revisiting that film I know why. I’ve been shaping my life around other people, carving out pieces of myself to better fit them, and to have them fit me. But the people I’ve chosen have not done the same for me. 
I have my flaws, and I’ve definitely improved myself and calmed myself down since high school. But it’s reached the point where I quiet myself down and make myself smaller so that my existence doesn’t stir up any trouble—as it has in the past. Who I am is OK to a few, and I know who my friends are. But the school I attend is different than back home. Many of the students here look at me like I’m crazy; they’re not used to seeing a black girl who likes Benjamin Booker just as much as she loves Beyoncé. I’ve been attacked for voicing my opinion and disagreeing with some not so intersectional views. Just as Nola’s lover did in She’s Gotta Have It, this school has tried to paint me as in need of fixing or changing. I’d almost agree with them if I didn’t have such wonderful friends who love me and check me if I’m out of line.
Another reason I haven’t been so nice to myself lately is due to new romantic experiences. The people I find attractive are also attracted to me and I find it shocking. I always knew I was beautiful to myself; I’m accustomed to simply being enough for me. Someone I’m actually interested in admitting they’re attracted to me another adds pressure, because then I think about why they want me and begin to overanalyze. I start to question it, like maybe they’re just trying to trick me or I know they keep wanting to hookup but do they actually like seeing me naked? This feeling is new and overwhelming and agonizing. I become so self-critical that I start making little changes to myself just to make sure I don’t turn them off, even though they say I’m more than enough.
I never used to think of myself as having to be enough for someone else. That requires compromise, compromise requires change, and I’m not sure if I’m ready to make any changes to myself. At this moment, I feel too young and free to change for someone who shows interest in me. I’ve already morphed myself to fit the crevices of this institution. I don’t want to shrink myself anymore. I’m tired of trying to avoid trouble for existing. I’m not weird, radical, or off. I’m perfect and beautiful. Like Nola Darling, I’m no freak. ♦
Britney
I am sick. What is it like to be cared for when you are sick? Once I knew but not now, and sometimes, it feels like not ever again. I have no real, consistent source of warmth in my life. I want to laugh because it is so sad. 
If I could leave my body, I would do it just to look myself in the eyes and say, “You must be the saddest person in the world. I feel for you with all my heart.”
Yesterday I stood on the edge and then cried from sheer terror on the 3 train. The possibility of suddenly not existing in the evening of the same day is enough to break anyone down. 
Am I supposed to be alone? Am I supposed to be alone?
I can’t do it! I can’t do it alone! Not all alone! Not all alone!
If I am this dependent maybe it is best. But maybe I am wrong and countless other humans are this way and lots of people just do their best to hide it because vulnerability is so ugly to them. I love its ugliness so much that I wear it daily. 
You can see how my emotions change throughout most of my pieces of writing—especially this—and I love it because it is the only way to say to people, “Do you believe me now? My emotions are carried on the wind. I can’t do much to stop them.” I can though. I just never have much motivation unless they are destroying me. I do not want to pretend to be someone else for the benefit of others. 
I am home sick and I can hear the workers in the next building sawing and hammering behind the thick black tarp, Death draping itself over red brick. The faded Latin music and caustic metallic clanging are the most familiar thing in this neighborhood to me. 
We are reading Oedipus Rex in my English seminar class. I sat on the train yesterday with my copy and said to myself, “What a sad man. He must have the most tragic life of anyone who ever lived.” I wonder how many people have looked at me and thought the same. ♦
Simone
I wholeheartedly believe that this summer, I have successfully converted my all-consuming obsession with real life teenage boys into an impersonal, but equally obsessive, sexually-charged worship of celebrities. Of course this is caused only by my over-consumption of popular culture, but its results are healthy. They have turned me into a more driven, less distracted, and happier person. As a proud Scorpio, my passionate nature cannot be suppressed, but my emotions can be!
If I can maintain my fascination with these perfectly marketed faces in far off lands, faces I will never awkwardly encounter in a school hallway, or have to rack up the guts to make eye contact with at a party, then I am safe. Safe from inklings of real feeling, which in turn makes me safe from possible vulnerability, happiness, sadness, and rejection. As anyone who is 16 knows, even the possibility of being rejected is heartbreaking.
In the rare event that a real life teenage boy and I were to mutually like each other very much, and be involved in an ideal teen relationship, that would require a lot of time, and worse, effort. Time and effort? Two things I am unwilling to give.
Most likely, I will return to school in a week and fall in love with at least one real life teenage boy in every class. I will imagine marrying him in a lavish ceremony at a medieval castle with pale, pink-themed decor. I remain optimistic that none of this will happen. ♦
Britney
I don’t remember the exact date and time; it could’ve been when my mother died (12:13 A.M., November 26, 2014), it could’ve been when I realized once and for all I’d spent years falling in love with the wrong person and it had finally come to bite me (sometime in June 2015), it could’ve been right before I went to the hospital again, it could’ve been a gradual amble to my demise in which I lost bits and pieces of myself and didn’t realize until I came face to face with the void. All that matters is: I died. (“In order to be reborn, one must first die.”)
There are pieces of my past life haunting all the rooms that I myself have come to haunt in my 16th year—heart shaped boxes, pictures taken with disposable cameras from years past, old cramped handwriting, dirty backpacks, dog-eared books that I don’t remember owning. I hear songs and remember who I used to be. I don’t miss my old self. 
“I have been to hell and back.
Lilly
My friends worry a lot about their “where”s. “Everyone wants to go to California for college, but that’s way too far away for me,” one tells me. “I was thinking about the East Coast, maybe Johns Hopkins or American, but I couldn’t do that to my family,” another says. And that’s fine. 
I won’t lie—I’ve wondered time after time, wouldn’t I be just fine going to the university in my own hometown? It would be easier. I know my way around, I’d never have to miss my favorite places and local events, I could see my family, and friends who stayed in town, as often as I wanted. This place has been my home for almost 17 years and there’s a reason I’ve never questioned it.
At least not until recently. Not until I went to Ireland last summer and realized that there was nowhere in my hometown that could take my breath away anymore. Not until one of my friends spent a semester studying abroad in Sweden and came back with tall tales of Champions League watching parties and Swedish puns and frustrating classes. Not until I found that maybe I know my way around this place a little too well. And now I can’t help but wonder, would I really even have a chance at being happy here for another four years or more?
I feel guilty sometimes for not being satisfied at the thought of staying here. Almost everyone I know assures me that they’d be fine with it, even if it wouldn’t be their first choice. To me it feels like the easy way out. Four years of college, maybe grad school, find a job, live my life.
But I don’t want to settle. I guess my problem now is that I know where I am, but not where I’m going. I just know it’s not here. ♦
Alyson
Last night, as on many nights, I lay in bed slightly panicked by the dark, thinking. I don’t know if it is thinking as much as it is making myself really angry, but I wake up and keep working hard (or start working harder). I get angry because I don’t live in a major city, because I don’t attend a school like Crossroads, like most of my camp friends do. 
I know life is what I make it, I know, I know, I know, I know. But sometimes, I have moments in which I can feel myself existing alone in my room, allowing the cold wind of truth to pass through me: I can work two times harder, make five times as much work, but it will only be noticed half as much. ♦
Thahabu
A few Sundays ago, my friend took me to a Jazmine Sullivan concert in Central Park. It was obviously fantastic because Jazmine Sullivan is fantastic, but she started singing this song called “Masterpiece” from her latest album. The song is about learning to love your body for what it is and celebrating every aspect of it. As I watched her sashay and belt her way around the stage I couldn’t help but think about my own self-esteem and the roller coaster I’ve put it through these past eight years. 
I have severe scoliosis which means my spine is shaped like an S. The curve was causing my ribcage to lean on my lungs, so at the age of 14 I had to get surgery to decrease the curve. Before the surgery, I was just a depressed pre-teen, who wondered why she had to have this terrible deformity that caused her peers to make fun of her, and prompted tiny children to ask their moms, “What’s wrong with her?” as I walked by. 
Growing up was rough. However, when I turned 13 (I was listening to a lot of Jeffree Star and Christina Aguilera), I straight up decided that if nobody thought I was pretty, I’d think I’m pretty (that’s exactly how I said it inside my head that day). And so that’s how it was from then on. I adopted this new Fuck You attitude, learned to ignore the stares and bullies, and told myself I was beautiful every chance I got. I was feeling great that year. I also found out that I’d be having my surgery that summer, and I assumed that my confidence would skyrocket to a whole new universe. My spine would be straighter, therefore I’d be even more “beautiful” on the outside and everybody would see it. I wouldn’t have to lie to myself about how I pretty was or “fake it till I made it,” because I’d truly be “pretty.” 
I was wrong as hell. After enduring excruciating surgeries, my spine was less curved, although still noticeably crooked. My breathing became so much better, but I had become so used to loving my super deformed body, that when I finally went home after my surgery and looked in the mirror I was frightened. I couldn’t recognize the body or person in my reflection, it made absolutely no sense. Everyone around me was telling me how great I looked but I couldn’t see it; it wasn’t mine, it wasn’t the body I had known for 14 years of my life, and that fucked me all the way up. I entered high school depressed as ever and had trouble making new friends. I wanted to stick to things that felt familiar; to get back to how life was before the surgery. I hung out with my middle school friends and now I even realize that I started wearing a blue weave again to subconsciously channel my younger self. The confidence I had worked so hard on building had dissipated.
Those next two years were hell, I lashed out at friends and hooked up with boys I didn’t even like because I thought that’s what made me a normal teenager. I looked more normal but didn’t feel it. I overcompensated by pretending to be this caricature of a “normal” American teen. It wasn’t until my junior year when I made new friends who were more focused on their school work and going to college, that I finally recognized my self worth. I saw that I was deserving of attention and love, not only from friends but more importantly, myself. My new pals and I would go out for lunch and blast One Direction on the car ride over, I’m not even a huge fan of the band, but in those moments I thought, this is what I’m supposed to be doing, this is what being 16 is about, not worrying about back pain and how strange I am, but sitting here singing along to some boy band on the way to Subway. I redirected my time toward making sure I’d be able to get into college. My grades improved dramatically, I opened up more, took a break from toxic friends, and joined clubs. I felt unstoppable and my confidence rebooted itself. 
I was high on my own self love, but at 19, at this Jazmine Sullivan concert, my fake it ’til you make it juice has worn off and I’m left with the shallow ass kiddie pool that is my self worth. I’m not sure how this happened. It could be because everything is going well for me right now: I’m entering my sophomore year of college with good grades, I’m having sex I actually enjoy, and I’m writing more. I should be ecstatic and loving life! Maybe I think so poorly of myself that I feel like I don’t deserve this? I’m not satisfied with myself. Sure, I’ve come a long way from wearing back braces and taking Percocet for pain, but I still hate my scars and deformed spine. I feel out of place in my own body and undeserving of all the love I’ve been receiving. I want to get back to being 13 and fearless, not 19 and unsure of myself. ♦
Simone
This summer, I was a camp counselor. I decided to become a camp counselor a week before camp started, so naturally I was very confused, and sometimes felt out of place. I was nervous kids would judge my Nae Nae the way other teenagers do. As it turns out, middle schoolers graders are amused by me. Maybe it’s only because of my vast Diary of a Wimpy Kid knowledge, or exciting high school stories, but it’s admiration nonetheless. Camp counselling is more similar to Wet Hot American Summer than paying parents would like, but it’s best that way.
I got my braces off. I expected this moment to change me forever. To look in a mirror, and see a completely new, glo’d up face, and know that my life would never be the same. A braceless Simone would still be clumsy and fun, but in a sexy way. She would look 21, and have her way with 21-year-old men. But Simone is still not that, in fact, I’m the opposite of that. Nothing has really changed, my teeth are just straight. Post-removal, I spent a week forgetting I didn’t have braces anymore and licking my teeth. Then, I didn’t really care or remember what I had gone through for 18 months. Self-confidence requires more than pliers, I guess.
Five weeks later, I lost my retainer.
I went to my grandma’s house for the longest I’ve ever been, with my dad and brother. And I realized, not only do I really love my dad, but also my brother. He was my best friend this summer.
I went to the Mac DeMarco show I’d been anticipating for months. I was so close to the stage, and everyone wanted my spot. Boys pushed their way to the front. They stopped to stand right behind my friends, and I thought to myself, This is the closest I’ve ever been to a boy. Wow. Everyone was sweaty, some were shirtless, and a lot of unintentional grinding ensued. But then, the boys pushed in front of us, and I realized the only good man left in this word is McBriare Samuel Lanyon DeMarco, so I jumped on stage, gave him the plastic Lisa Simpson head I’d brought for him, and kissed him on the cheek. I dove off stage and ran to get water. I was shaking, and could barely stand because residual marijuana smoke and touching your idol have mystifying powers, especially when combined.
I gained seven pounds, and none of my summer clothes fit anymore. That made me kind of sad, so I started eating more healthily, and lost eight. As I’m learning, losing weight doesn’t really change how you feel about yourself. Well, besides how well your clothing fits. (I did miss my jorts for a brief time.)
I didn’t sneak out every night. I didn’t make any new friends. I didn’t travel anywhere exciting, I didn’t even get on a plane. I didn’t have a summer fling. I didn’t even finish a show on Netflix. But, I had a good summer. A relaxing, and calm, and rejuvenating summer. Although I’m not looking forward to my inevitable return to chaotic high school bullshit, I’m not dreading it. I’m ready. I’m an improved, albeit currently retainer-less, Simone.
As of last night, summer is over. I’ll miss it. ♦
Thahabu
“You forgot about me?” a 24-year-old man with a child asked me over the phone. I hadn’t talked to him for a week after giving him my number. I was walking through the park when we met. He was pushing two babies in swings and waved what I thought was an innocent hello. I smiled back, speeding my way to the library. The next thing I heard was, “Get that slim, get that!” I tried to rationalize as I always do in these situations, he can’t be talking about me. The man rushed after me, leaving the kids in the swings for his friend to watch. He began shouting to get my attention but I ignored him, already aware of what was going on. I turned around to see how close he was to me: close enough. I’m not new to this so I quickly went through the motions in my head, any man that will leave his kids to follow me out of a park is the type of man who’ll get angry and hurt me if I don’t respond to him. So I stopped, and performed the routine I always do when men bother me on the street. I forced a smile and complied. 
“Why was you ignoring me when I was calling you?” There was a sense possesiveness in his voice. 
“Oh, um, I’m kinda in a rush” I replied. 
He told me his name which I do not remember, and kept telling me how I need to respond when someone’s talking to me. I just nodded my head. He asked for my number and I gave it to him my real number, because I knew what was coming: He called it right in front of me to make sure it was mine. 
This happens so often that I have categories for types of street harassers, and I could tell he was the, “Let me call your phone right now so I know you ain’t tryna play me” type. Had it been the wrong number, if my phone didn’t ring when he called, my safety would’ve been compromised, my body and personal space would’ve been violated, and I’d be called a bitch like I have been in the past. And now here I am, speechless, because this stranger has the nerve to call me saying, “You forgot about me,” as if I owe him something for pressuring me into giving him my number. 
“No,” I said, before hanging up and blocking him like should’ve done a week ago.
In those moments I practically reacted the same as I would to a police officer stopping me for no reason. I assessed the situation, realized he had much more power and strength than me, and did as he said I should to protect my life. Whenever I tell these kinds of stories to my male friends—specifically my black male friends—they tell me I’m overreacting. It’s sad. How can someone who’s used to being followed around by strange white men in uniforms tell me, a black woman, that being followed around and harassed by strange men isn’t that big of a deal? 
They don’t understand how prevalent and violent is is. That’s why I need black feminism. Because the feeling of fear that rushes through my spine every time a cop approaches me is the same feeling I get whenever a man follows me home or asks me “Why?” when I refuse to give him my number. Just like cops think they’re entitled to my body and time when they tell me to step aside and give them my name, these men who approach me, refuse to take my “No,” and demand that I explain why I don’t wanna hang with them. They show the same bravado as a power-hungry police officer. What’s not to get? The same men who complain about store clerks following them around look me dead in the face when they tell me being followed home by men who ‘like’ me should be taken as a compliment. It’s frightening. ♦
Alyson
I’m writing in my diary, not a journal (I am trying to make myself comfortable with the word “diary”) in first period, regular U.S. History. I write during that class almost every day. It works well because no one sits behind me, and most of what we are learning was covered in the President’s Day presentations I had every year in elementary school; a crash course on pilgrims, Native Americans, and presidents. 
Today, there is someone sitting behind me, because she wants to take notes with her friend in the very back row of desks. Except they are not taking notes. One is telling the other how she is going to her boyfriend’s house after the football game tonight, because his parents are gone for the weekend. It’s a scenario I have only heard in ’80s movies. 
Giggle giggle giggle. Her friend laughs that all-knowing laugh. They know a lot of boys, they are kind of popular. Popular like all the other blonde girls who wear striped T-shirt dresses and booties, and put dark streaks in their light hair. 
As much as I feel uncomfortable about hearing girls my age expend all of their words on how they plan to get hook-ups, I start to self-evaluate. 
I remember, like, 50 years ago when I watched Prom with my mom. She thought it was sweet, but I thought it was exciting. I was totally under the impression that people were going to be such adults in high school, and that I would most definitely be asked to a dance. Now I am dipping my toe in the dull waters of junior year where the only guys who might ever ask me to anything are boys who I was nice to, while the others stay in the platonic playpen.
And it’s starting to wear on me. 
Am I listening to them because I might want to know…how? How to get boys to like me, despite the fact that I have never colored my hair and refuse to wear those T-shirt-dress hybrids? 
God, of course not.
Maybe. ♦
Steffany
My first week in college has been nothing short of eventful, and to add insult to injury, I am in deep infatuation. It all started on the second night of school. Far away from the watchful eyes of their parents, many of the freshmen, me included, decided to turn up. We’d all been friends with the upperclassmen, and there was a party happening in their campus apartments. Apartments are living spaces reserved for older students, who decided to stick it out; for that you get a kitchen area although you’re too broke to afford food to cook.
Anyway, we’re all gathered around this little kitchen table. There’s pettiness aplenty with people dividing into cliques, and rationing out a 40 oz beer amongst themselves. I, not being in the clique, could not partake of a shot of beer and pretend that I was drunk. Instead, I make conversation with the guy next to me. He’s a sophomore, but he’s my age—one of the overachieving types who stayed close to home at the urging of his parents, and lost his mind with all the freedom to which he gained access. But he doesn’t matter. Who matters much more, is his attractive friend, we’ll call him Al. Al is tall and lanky, brimming with this unspoken confidence, with an incredibly dry and endearing demeanor. I am in love. The girls at the party all noticed him, but I was the one hanging out with him. 
Things were kinda fuzzy because I had decided to do things my parents had warned me against. Nonetheless, he chatted me up, and took care of me. It was like I was the only person who mattered, but that may have been the drugs. I mean, maybe that’s why I’m idealizing him in the first place. That whole night was as if I was in the middle of one of Spike Lee’s famous dolly shots. You know the scene in Crooklyn where Troy gets high and floats through Brooklyn? That was me. And all the guilt I felt for having partaken in the first place melted away.
He saw me a day or two later and went out of his way to say hi. It didn’t fully click and I kinda blew him off. It was the third hello that made me infatuated. Maybe I’m being silly, and he just felt bad for the freshman who couldn’t hang. Either way, I am crushing so hard. It’s conflicting: Looking for him on campus like I’m in some one-sided game of hide and seek makes the day more fun. My friends going, “I SEEN YOUR BOO, GIRL!” while we walk to class is funny. It’s a schoolgirl crush, but I’ll also be pretty upset if I don’t get over my nerves and talk to him. 
Am I pretty enough? Interesting enough? Am I his type? I hate being hampered by those questions because they undermine the self-confidence I’ve worked so hard to build. As of now, I can only love myself for who I am and hope Al sees something in me. Ugh, that sounds so desperate. But what is a girl to do? I’m literally smiling as I type this, thinking about the possibility of our having a relationship. This makes me feel silly but I also like the butterflies in my stomach when we’re in the dining hall and he looks in my direction. ♦
Britney
Breakfast: Melon that reminds me of Toulouse, café au lait, 75 milligrams of Zoloft, juice. I read a Susan Sontag essay and try to place the source of the dense foreboding that is too big for my body before realizing: Today is the last day before school starts. My first day of junior year. 
I want to be worth it. I repeat: I want to be worth it. I want to do incredibly well in school and be the type of person who spends a considerable amount of time focused on academics, and dedicate part of each day to making art and writing. I want to be organized and content and feel as if I am making the most of myself. 
I’ve cut my hair even shorter than before. I am growing to hate spending time worrying about my physical self, worrying about how I look and how others perceive me. 
I get two new Salvador Dalí posters for my room—Crucifixion and The Meditative Rose. I buy a ticket to the Whitney; my favorite thing is going to the museums I love most by myself. I try to make myself happy for once in my life. I want to be good to myself and to others. 
In a dream that I wake up from doused in perspiration, I have died without initially realizing it; it is perhaps the most jarring dream I have ever had, because my will to live has never been stronger, and has never felt more necessary. I do not have enough happiness but I am constantly reaching for positivity. ♦
Simone
Things That Happened During my First Week of Junior Year:
1. I jam packed my schedule, ridding myself of lunch period, and thus, the opportunity to buy lunch off campus. My wallet, and that of my father, rejoiced. I’ve discovered the magic of smashed up, room temperature peanut butter and jelly sandwiches eaten during gym class.
2. I survived the first week with my mom as my English teacher. In class it was not that bad; she laughed at all my jokes and didn’t make me feel like an idiot.
2a. At home, it was horrible. Twice in one week she preemptively grounded me until I finished all the “work she knew I had.”
2ai. As a result, in addition to the guilt I feel in cancelling babysitting jobs, I missed the first “lituation” of the school year. I felt very “salty,” because my night, which lasted until 4:32 AM, and consisted only of homework and crying babies, was “buns.”
3. A boy told me I was glo’ing up. I cherished the moment. I will forever. 
4. I ruined a great platonic relationship with a boy by doing the single most awkward thing you can do in a great platonic relationship with a boy, and worse yet, the day before school started.
4a. We have exchanged an estimated five words since.
4b. I hope we were not acting upon actual feelings because emotional attachment is a distraction from my study and sleep schedule.
5. My stomach has entered a perpetual state of what I can only describe as “butterflies,” as I nervously flit from class to class, thinking of all the work I have, people I must impress, and whether I am contracting tetanus from re-exposure to my school building. It lingers as I return home and procrastinate until the late hours of the night, forgetting to eat and drink water and calm down as I dwell in my stress. I go to sleep, wake up, and repeat the same routine on yet another day.
6. I cried a lot, almost every night. Pressure, and people, and petty high school bullshit are so annoying. I miss summer.
6a. For any of you who need the recommendation, I’ve found “When You’re Gone” by the Cranberries is a very good song to cry to. ♦
Marah
My only goal right now is to find dignity, which I have lost in my own homeland. I have, therefore, decided to travel. We heard that following the global interest in the story of the little Syrian boy who drowned, some European countries decided to send ships to safely transfer Syrians from Turkey to Europe for free. This news motivated me, and I raised the subject with my mother, who completely rejected the idea. She knows that no matter how we do it, it will cost us a lot of money. Additionally, she has heard many stories about poor conditions in the refugee camps in Turkey; she does not want us—if we fail for any reason to get on one of these ships—to end up living in one of them.
My mother’s concerns have not changed my mind, and after the recent explosions in Damascus, I am more convinced than ever that leaving is my only hope. The explosions and the severe security measures that followed turned life in the capital into hell.
The situation is deteriorating day after day. Everybody is exhausted and fed up. A few days ago, there was a huge explosion close to where we live. None of us was injured, but my mother, who was at work when it occurred, was frightened for our lives.
I have a surprise for you: I got officially engaged to the man I mentioned to you. He is my only way to get out of here and start a new life. The engagement is intended as a time to get to know each other and learn if we are a good match to start a family together. When I talk to him, I sometimes feel that I am talking to a friend, and sometimes like I am talking to a brother, or even a father. The whole thing is very recent, but I have a feeling that things will work out between us.
I went to apply for a passport and I was shocked at the number of people also applying. I waited from 8 AM until 4 PM, and it was still not my turn. It seemed like every Syrian was planning to leave, or, more accurately, was planning to escape. I do not blame them—life here is unbearable. Maybe people rushed to apply for passports when they heard about the European ships. We do not know how credible the news is, but people are devastated and looking for a way out.
My mother refuses to take any action because she is worried that the whole story might be a rumor and she does not want us to take any risks. She does not want to leave with me, so I have found my own way out: I will marry someone who can help. I cannot stop thinking of how crowded the immigration center was. Syria is losing its citizens and turning into a deserted country. Everyone is searching for the dignity that Syrians asked for at the beginning of the revolution, but we received more humiliation instead.
It is very strange how life has stripped us of our independent will, and is now leading us the way it wants—we make decisions we never imagined we could make, and take roads we never imagined we could take. The future does not scare me anymore, because there is nothing worse than where I am right now. I must take risks with the hope that I might save myself, my family and my future. ♦
Marah’s diary is produced in collaboration with Syria Deeply, a digital news outlet covering the Syrian crisis. It was translated from the Arabic by Mais Istanbelli.
Lilly
Time goes on. My friends from other parts of the U.S. complain about starting school; I grind my teeth into my second month of it. I panic over a calculus test at midnight and ace it the next morning. My college counselor tells me that 12 other people in my class are applying to one of my top choice universities, and I wonder helplessly what that means for my chances. With club soccer out of the picture, everything is about school and college applications and The Future, and sometimes I can’t believe that I once thought I could handle both school and soccer this semester. I don’t know how our athletes do it.
Time goes on. I get my MRI done; the technician on the evening shift is a gruff sort of guy who is impossibly careful with me as he settles my ankle into a foam pocket and tells me not to move, not even to wiggle my toes. He tells me that I won’t feel anything and gives me a pair of headphones to counteract the ominous clunking noises that the huge cylindrical machine makes as it scans my lower body. Half an hour later I’m wobbling out of the clinic with tingling legs—from the lengthy stillness or the changing magnetic fields?—and a vague hope that in a few days, maybe, I’ll be out of the air cast for good.
Time goes on. I’ll be seeing Purity Ring live soon, taping up my wristband and melding with the crowd. The last show I went to at this venue was flashy and wild with enough bass to make my stomach clench and everyone in attendance feel that much more alive. For the last song I joined hands with two people I didn’t know and whirled with the masses, made confident by anonymity. Will it be the same this year? 
Time goes on. Maybe I only feel a little empty, but it’s a lot of the time. ♦
Britney
This school year feels different. Last week one of my very best friends and I saw L7; I met Donita Sparks afterwards, in the bar while I was looking for my lost phone. It felt like a still from the ’70s, when an aspiring groupie finally meets her idol. It was a tender moment drenched in sweat and blue eyeliner. I stood in awe afterwards on a street corner with my friend as she smoked and showed me the pick that Donita gave her. “I can’t believe she touched me,” she said, her eyes widening with so much admiration that my heart almost burst. “I’ll never forget this. I’m never washing my hand.” 
I go through entire days happy—this is not normal for me. I don’t get tired. I smile all the time and I kiss my friends on the cheek when I see them and I look forward to things. I like all of my classes. I answer questions and perk up when my name is called and take extensive notes on everything the teacher says. My conversations are no longer awkward, I compliment random people in the hallways, and I talk to the seniors. I do not cry when I remember that they will be gone next year and I will be taking their place; I have learned to appreciate the present. It is a gift. I have no recollection of what it is like to be depressed from the time I wake up to the time I struggle to go to sleep. I do not feel normal, and for once in my life, this is a very, very good thing. ♦
Steffany
As part of my work study, I sit in a museum shop for five hours. I thought I had hit the jackpot—taking up a job that required very little actual work. I was wrong. I mean, I should be counting my blessings, but when there’s nothing to do five hours is a long stretch. There’s very little to sell outside of overpriced trinkets and our target demographic seems to be artsy, rich, white people. However, a closer look reveals that these people aren’t very artsy after all, and despite being rich, they’re not willing to part with $200 for an “African” rug. Any textile in the store that uses a lot of color is pegged as African, as if that drives up the market value. I imagine these people want to seem cultured because they can mention their African baskets and such at the next dinner party. We don’t get many visitors and I think the selection of art is mediocre. I watched a performance art piece in tribute to Eric Garner that felt disingenuous. Upstairs are run of the mill works, Rothko, Albers, and the like.
An exciting part of my week was seeing some rappers perform at my school. The beats were sick, but when I went on SoundCloud, it was like the feeling and sound in that little heat filled basement-like room couldn’t be replicated online. Between dabbing and whipping, I decided to embark on a journey to make my own music. I would like to get some music equipment when I come by some money. In the meantime, I’ve been teaching myself virtual DJ. My only issue is that, as a DJ, I want to play the music I want to hear. Nobody in the club wants to hear Cherrelle. I mean, I know it isn’t the ’80s, but if I remixed it maybe? I’ve been really looking to Kindness, the musician Adam Bainbridge, whose mixes incorporate the old and the new in fresh ways. He’s also kind of cute. 
I grew up around music and I’ve been dying to make some of my own. So here’s to ditching self doubt and moving forward in pursuing our dreams, no matter how big or small. ♦
Marah
Damascus is a city to love. Everyone who has visited or lived in this city has fallen for her. Songs and poetry have been written about and for her. But the almost-five-year war has damaged her—all we are thinking of now is how to leave her.
The pain and the blood that we experience every day exhausts us. Even my mother, the wise and strong woman who has overcome so much, is becoming weak. She recently decided that my brother should immigrate to Europe as a refugee with one of our relatives so that he might one day apply for family reunion papers to help us get out of this hell.
She knew how hard and dangerous the journey was, and she knew that he was still a 12-year-old boy, but she had run out of options. She got him a passport and started planning his trip, but she backed out at the very last moment. She realized that she was sacrificing him for the sake of the rest of us, and saw that it was not fair. Many families are sending their kids into the unknown with the hope that they might one day help the rest of the family get out.
People are not only fleeing to Europe—internal displacement has brought many new souls to Damascus. They suffer from such extreme poverty and poor living conditions that they cannot afford to send their children to school because the family unit is dependent on all its members for survival. I cannot imagine what kind of future is in store for Syria.
As for me, I work all day long, and in a month, I will return to my studies. I still have hope that one day I will realize my dreams, but I know that this will never happen here. I cannot achieve anything here, and I cannot enjoy anything either. I don’t even enjoy the company of my friends anymore. Everything has become void of meaning. There is only one thing left: my family. They are my strength when I am surrounded by nothing but darkness.
I want to leave so that I can help my family, but my mother rejects the idea unless I go to Switzerland, where my aunt lives. I don’t want to proceed with my plans without my mom’ s approval, because if I leave, I don’t know if I will ever see her again because death has become our daily companion in Syria. I am lost and scattered. I don’t know what to do. I cannot make a decision that might lead to me losing my family. ♦
Marah’s diary is produced in collaboration with Syria Deeply, a digital news outlet covering the Syrian crisis. It was translated from the Arabic by Mais Istanbelli.
Alyson
There’s something I do to myself when I have really landed at the bottom of the pit. I ask myself the rhetorical question, like a disciplinarian parent, What would my _____ self think of me now? I didn’t realize how mean it was until last week at the doctor’s office. A wellness-check. The scale.
What would my ana-self think of me now?
That’s the question that does me in. The answer hits like a spanking.
My grip slips in pre-calculus, just like every time I have attempted a pull-up. When did this begin?
What would my “smartest in the class” elementary school self think of me now?
God, everyone thought I was so smart. But now every other number might as well be a question mark and I don’t want to “ask my neighbor” because I can practically see his ego eating my dependency up. 
I wonder if someday I will ask myself, What would my high school self think of me now? ♦
Simone
I’m willing to accept the ever-changing texture of my hair. I’m aware that even as child, with curly mixed hair, my tresses never looked the same two days in a row. I’m aware that once you bleach your hair, it is never the same. I’m aware that unless I decide to cut off all my hair and embrace wigs for the next five years, I will spend this time covering up roots with various dyes, only to have them wash out after a few weeks and be left with the problem I began with initially. I’m aware that I’m only so paranoid about the appearance of my hair because society has trained me to believe, that as a woman—and more specifically a teenage girl—my value is almost wholly dependent upon how many people want to bone me, and that this is in part determined by the state of my hair. But I’m aware that ultimately, there are more pressing matters to fret about than my hair being frizzy, or having overgrown roots. For example, the melting of the polar ice caps, and the popularity of Donald Trump as a political figure.
I’m willing to accept newfound stresses and heavy workloads. I’m aware that my junior year of high school will likely be my most challenging and strenuous. I’m aware that I must allocate appropriate and realistic amounts of time to completing my work. I’m aware that I will have to better my study habits, because from this point onwards it seems, my high school career will entail a severe amount of testing. I’m aware that I am entering the difficult phase of my life in which my self-worth depends entirely on college acceptances and fractions gained out of 2,400. But I’m also aware that my self-worth does not depend entirely on these things. I will do my best to remain creative, and confident, and content with my state of being.
I’m willing to accept the social politics of high school, and the fact that my place in them is about as prominent as that of a mayor in small town in Wyoming. I’m aware that if I want to regularly be admitted into parties, gain loyal freshman Instagram followers, and kiss cute boys, I will have to change my personal priorities, spending more time on my physical appearance, crafting more intricate lies to tell my parents, and possibly abandoning a few outlying friends. I’m aware that some of my closest allies have chosen this path and—from Snapchat stories and morning-after texts—seem happy with it. But, I’m aware that the Simone from two months ago, and even two days ago, wouldn’t sell herself short for a few hours of forgetful fun every weekend. She wouldn’t even consider it.
I’m aware that there will be nights spent home alone when I wish I could be another girl, holding a Red Solo Cup and yelling at her friends to get their shit together. I’m aware that some nights this girl will be. She’s been let into the party, and made some younger underclassmen hopeful for the stories of their social lives to come. She’s even kissed a cute boy. But will she really be any happier, or more confident? Will her hair look better? Will her readiness for the SAT or ACT or AP have improved? Will she feel adequate? Will she still wish she could fit into a smaller size? Yes. She always will, even if she’s found some miracle way to keep her hair pin-straight for 24 hours, and she’s gained early admission to her dream school. She could be the most important girl in her bubble, but she’ll always think, What if I’d done this, instead of that? and Where would I be if hadn’t done any of that at all? and Am I pretty enough, or smart enough, or cool enough?
I need to be more willing to accept that perfection is unattainable. ♦
Thahabu
Light, but not mixed race, which means light skinned but not “beautiful.” My twist outs never come out right, my hair is nappy. I’m light skinned, but don’t quite resemble Tracee Ellis Ross. “You’re brave, I would never wear my hair like that,” fellow black girls say to me. 
I’m still learning to accept that I’ll never look like Zendaya or Zoë Kravitz. I’ve always been jealous of mixed girls with loose curls and faces that scream, my parents achieved the perfect ethnic mix to make the perfect human being! I want to be them: interesting and pretty, not confusing and nappy. Saying I’m black and only black disappoints people vying to hear me sing, “I’m Danish, Japanese, and black,” like a popular MJ lyric. “I’m just black,” doesn’t cut it. 
I remember being at a high school party and having this boy flirt with me. It was going well until he completely flipped the conversation, “I bet your pussy so pink.” I replied that it wasn’t, perturbed and unaware that at 15 people have preferences for the color of a girl’s vulva. He paused and stared at me with a mix of bewilderment and slight disgust, “Oh yea, you probably not mixed, I can tell from your hair.” Of course I was offended and told him off, but it was in that instant that I started to feel like a glitch, when I noticed that I may be light skinned and reap all the privileges of my light complexion, but I’d never meet the Light-Skinned Girl beauty standard. I contradict the idea that having light skin means you have long soft curls and a non-black parent, and that seems to upset people.
This aspect of my life has had a huge effect on my self esteem. Every day I battle with telling myself that I’m worthy of love. I’m attempting to come to terms with not being blessed with the “perfect” genetic makeup. I’ll never be enough, not mixed enough, not tall enough, definitely not thick enough. I’m not sure if I’ll ever be OK with that; being shaped like Thandie Newton but shorter with a slightly bigger butt, and having awkward big lips that make me look like a fish. Never beautiful, but always “cute.” 
Many of my biracial friends struggle with not looking “black enough,” while I grapple with not looking “ambiguous enough.” As a non-mixed, light-skinned girl I’m viewed as coming up short. I could almost pass for an Ideal Mixed Girl, but there’s always that one person who makes a comment about the texture of my hair or the roundness of my nose and I’m a have-not or just “aight” once again. I’m in this strange purgatory on the color scale, and I don’t like it. I’m still chasing after an idea of perfection, and frankly, it’s tiring. I’ll have to stop and look in the mirror one day. I’m just not sure if I’m ready for it. ♦
Cammy
It’s easy to say that last week was one of the worst weeks of my life. Here’s why:
My Math teacher switched my seat so I’m in a terrible group where everyone just copies from me AND my best friend in the class is practically a million miles away. This exact thing happened in my Chemistry class lab group, where one girl didn’t know which end liquid came out of a dropper.
I had a group project in English. I chose to work with this one boy thinking that we would work well together, only to find out that he’s a patronizing control freak.
I was back at my dad’s house; as usual he had something bitter to say to me.
I’ve been feeling like I’m missing out on my friends’ lives.
I scored pretty low on my SRI test.
On Friday, I got paint in my hair that doesn’t seem like it’s coming out any time soon. Haircut???
Probably the worst thing happening right now is that I’m getting over this could-have-been relationship which ended earlier this summer when the person I was into started dating someone else. Since school started, I’ve had to be around these two people, and seeing them can ruin my entire day. Issues around this have been building up all summer long, but last week, it just became too overwhelming. I can honestly say that I’ve cried at least twice a day, every day.
Just being alone for a little too long makes me feel like the world is over. Part of me is scared that I’ll never get out of this funk, but I also feel like things are maybe looking up, just a little. 
A lot of my favorite shows are starting back up.
In a recent Queer Straight Alliance leadership meeting we came up with some of the best ideas probably ever.
There’s now officially a Rookie Yearbook Four signing in San Francisco in a little over a month.
I caught up on some movies my friends have been wanting me to watch (Frances Ha and Amelie)
I’m getting good grades!
Feminist Club is starting and it’ll be so fun to hang out with all my friends.
I got all these great stickers and I’m getting new glasses soon.
I got to make a super funny video with my friends Dio and Chris for Computer class.
I guess, one of my best qualities is that even when things are bad, I know they’ll pass. This optimistic attitude has got me through a lot and I’m sure I’ll be able to put these bad feelings away soon. I’m really looking forward to that. ♦
Simone
I’m falling short.
This past weekend it was one of my best friend’s birthdays. My other friend had planned a massive gathering at her house in honor of the event. I woke up at 11 AM, energized. I showered, and thought about doing homework, but didn’t. I stared at myself in the mirror for about 30 minutes. I watched people on BuzzFeed eat Vegemite. I imagined possible scenarios which could take place later in the evening. I soon remembered I had to go to my grandpa’s birthday dinner during the day, so I put on pants. Then I stared at myself some more, because I was looking good! LIFE was good.
And then around 1 PM, I started getting cramps. For some people, cramps are annoying, but manageable. For others, they are painful, but treatable. For me, they involve excessive crying, vomiting induced by the churning organs of my lower abdomen, and questioning God’s existence. Something so normal and standard for every person with a shedding uterus, is debilitating and detrimental for me. So, I missed my grandpa’s birthday dinner. Worse than my mother’s judgement of me ( she likely assumed I’d magnified my symptoms to miss out on “How is school?” and “Do you have a boyfriend yet?” questions from extended family), was that this dinner was taking place at an Americanized Asian-fusion all-you-can-eat buffet. This establishment is a literal description of my aesthetic, but over 90 miles away from my home. I don’t know when my next opportunity to eat Kung Pao chicken tenders on a skewer will arise.
I was left home alone where I slept for four hours, and cried every time I saw someone in a wedding dress on television, because love is BEAUTIFUL. My parents returned home; although my recovery was beginning, I still could not move from the fetal position without feeling the pain of one thousand knives being driven into my lower left side by Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson.
I missed the party, and funny moments, and seeing people I don’t usually see in school, but most importantly, the group photoshoots. As mentioned earlier, I’d spent half my day sleeping, so I didn’t get any homework done either. I decided to re-watch every movie available On Demand released in 2007, but after 20 minutes of Shrek the Third, I fell asleep again.
I woke up Sunday morning, and stared at my agenda, and saw nine archaically dictated federalist papers to translate and summarize into contemporary English, a thick Spanish script to memorize for a presentation Monday, e-mails to send, a lengthy bill on a boring economic topic to write, and more opportunities to miss. It’s 5 PM now. I fell short. ♦
Marah
At Eid al-Adha, the Feast of the Sacrifice holiday, everyone is supposed to be busy getting ready, buying food, sweets and new clothes to celebrate. But people are overwhelmed by other things. 
This year, the holiday came just as schools were opening their doors for the new academic year—right when students need school supplies. Because of the war, most Syrians are unemployed and they cannot afford both occasions at the same time. 
Many families are under a lot of pressure, and that leads to stress and fighting. For many, a new backpack or a new pair of pants has become a dream.
As people suffer, others exploit the situation. Property owners have shown no mercy and rents have soared to unprecedented heights. The owner of our tiny apartment wants to double the rent. My mother’s income and my income combined can barely cover our needs, and we cannot afford our rent. For this reason, we are now looking for an even smaller place. 
My income, although small, helps a lot, so I cannot leave my job. I will be working in a showroom during Eid al-Adha. I am not happy that I will not be spending time with my family during the holiday, but the showroom job pays well, and we need every penny. However, my family will be stuck at home, because the streets are not safe—explosions and missiles are everywhere and people are too scared to leave their houses.
As for holiday gifts, we received the best present ever: no electricity or water for five days—we felt less than human. What makes things even more difficult is that, being from an opposition-controlled area, many people blame us for what is happening in the country, as if it was our fault. I am really fed up with what some people say. Often I just cannot control myself, and I explode in their faces and defend myself and all displaced people. My mother says that I should control myself, and avoid responding to such accusations, but I do not agree with her—I believe that it is my responsibility to defend myself and those like me. Additionally, the general pressure makes it very hard for me to absorb and contain such accusations. No matter how strong we are, we all have limits, and the past five years have brought me to mine. 
The worsening situation has changed me in significant ways. I am not the same person I used to be. My standards and morals have changed. I mean, look at me: I agreed to get engaged to someone that I have no feelings for, only so that he might take me out of here! I feel like I am using him and I that it is not fair. I truly do not know who I am anymore. I look at myself in the mirror and do not recognize the girl I see, so I cry and cry. ♦
Marah’s diary is produced in collaboration with Syria Deeply, a digital news outlet covering the Syrian crisis. It was translated from the Arabic by Mais Istanbelli.
Simone
I wholeheartedly believe that this summer, I have successfully converted my all-consuming obsession with real life teenage boys into an impersonal, but equally obsessive, sexually-charged worship of celebrities. Of course this is caused only by my over-consumption of popular culture, but its results are healthy. They have turned me into a more driven, less distracted, and happier person. As a proud Scorpio, my passionate nature cannot be suppressed, but my emotions can be!
If I can maintain my fascination with these perfectly marketed faces in far off lands, faces I will never awkwardly encounter in a school hallway, or have to rack up the guts to make eye contact with at a party, then I am safe. Safe from inklings of real feeling, which in turn makes me safe from possible vulnerability, happiness, sadness, and rejection. As anyone who is 16 knows, even the possibility of being rejected is heartbreaking.
In the rare event that a real life teenage boy and I were to mutually like each other very much, and be involved in an ideal teen relationship, that would require a lot of time, and worse, effort. Time and effort? Two things I am unwilling to give.
Most likely, I will return to school in a week and fall in love with at least one real life teenage boy in every class. I will imagine marrying him in a lavish ceremony at a medieval castle with pale, pink-themed decor. I remain optimistic that none of this will happen. ♦
Britney
I don’t remember the exact date and time; it could’ve been when my mother died (12:13 A.M., November 26, 2014), it could’ve been when I realized once and for all I’d spent years falling in love with the wrong person and it had finally come to bite me (sometime in June 2015), it could’ve been right before I went to the hospital again, it could’ve been a gradual amble to my demise in which I lost bits and pieces of myself and didn’t realize until I came face to face with the void. All that matters is: I died. (“In order to be reborn, one must first die.”)
There are pieces of my past life haunting all the rooms that I myself have come to haunt in my 16th year—heart shaped boxes, pictures taken with disposable cameras from years past, old cramped handwriting, dirty backpacks, dog-eared books that I don’t remember owning. I hear songs and remember who I used to be. I don’t miss my old self. 
“I have been to hell and back.
Lilly
My friends worry a lot about their “where”s. “Everyone wants to go to California for college, but that’s way too far away for me,” one tells me. “I was thinking about the East Coast, maybe Johns Hopkins or American, but I couldn’t do that to my family,” another says. And that’s fine. 
I won’t lie—I’ve wondered time after time, wouldn’t I be just fine going to the university in my own hometown? It would be easier. I know my way around, I’d never have to miss my favorite places and local events, I could see my family, and friends who stayed in town, as often as I wanted. This place has been my home for almost 17 years and there’s a reason I’ve never questioned it.
At least not until recently. Not until I went to Ireland last summer and realized that there was nowhere in my hometown that could take my breath away anymore. Not until one of my friends spent a semester studying abroad in Sweden and came back with tall tales of Champions League watching parties and Swedish puns and frustrating classes. Not until I found that maybe I know my way around this place a little too well. And now I can’t help but wonder, would I really even have a chance at being happy here for another four years or more?
I feel guilty sometimes for not being satisfied at the thought of staying here. Almost everyone I know assures me that they’d be fine with it, even if it wouldn’t be their first choice. To me it feels like the easy way out. Four years of college, maybe grad school, find a job, live my life.
But I don’t want to settle. I guess my problem now is that I know where I am, but not where I’m going. I just know it’s not here. ♦
Alyson
Last night, as on many nights, I lay in bed slightly panicked by the dark, thinking. I don’t know if it is thinking as much as it is making myself really angry, but I wake up and keep working hard (or start working harder). I get angry because I don’t live in a major city, because I don’t attend a school like Crossroads, like most of my camp friends do. 
I know life is what I make it, I know, I know, I know, I know. But sometimes, I have moments in which I can feel myself existing alone in my room, allowing the cold wind of truth to pass through me: I can work two times harder, make five times as much work, but it will only be noticed half as much. ♦
Thahabu
A few Sundays ago, my friend took me to a Jazmine Sullivan concert in Central Park. It was obviously fantastic because Jazmine Sullivan is fantastic, but she started singing this song called “Masterpiece” from her latest album. The song is about learning to love your body for what it is and celebrating every aspect of it. As I watched her sashay and belt her way around the stage I couldn’t help but think about my own self-esteem and the roller coaster I’ve put it through these past eight years. 
I have severe scoliosis which means my spine is shaped like an S. The curve was causing my ribcage to lean on my lungs, so at the age of 14 I had to get surgery to decrease the curve. Before the surgery, I was just a depressed pre-teen, who wondered why she had to have this terrible deformity that caused her peers to make fun of her, and prompted tiny children to ask their moms, “What’s wrong with her?” as I walked by. 
Growing up was rough. However, when I turned 13 (I was listening to a lot of Jeffree Star and Christina Aguilera), I straight up decided that if nobody thought I was pretty, I’d think I’m pretty (that’s exactly how I said it inside my head that day). And so that’s how it was from then on. I adopted this new Fuck You attitude, learned to ignore the stares and bullies, and told myself I was beautiful every chance I got. I was feeling great that year. I also found out that I’d be having my surgery that summer, and I assumed that my confidence would skyrocket to a whole new universe. My spine would be straighter, therefore I’d be even more “beautiful” on the outside and everybody would see it. I wouldn’t have to lie to myself about how I pretty was or “fake it till I made it,” because I’d truly be “pretty.” 
I was wrong as hell. After enduring excruciating surgeries, my spine was less curved, although still noticeably crooked. My breathing became so much better, but I had become so used to loving my super deformed body, that when I finally went home after my surgery and looked in the mirror I was frightened. I couldn’t recognize the body or person in my reflection, it made absolutely no sense. Everyone around me was telling me how great I looked but I couldn’t see it; it wasn’t mine, it wasn’t the body I had known for 14 years of my life, and that fucked me all the way up. I entered high school depressed as ever and had trouble making new friends. I wanted to stick to things that felt familiar; to get back to how life was before the surgery. I hung out with my middle school friends and now I even realize that I started wearing a blue weave again to subconsciously channel my younger self. The confidence I had worked so hard on building had dissipated.
Those next two years were hell, I lashed out at friends and hooked up with boys I didn’t even like because I thought that’s what made me a normal teenager. I looked more normal but didn’t feel it. I overcompensated by pretending to be this caricature of a “normal” American teen. It wasn’t until my junior year when I made new friends who were more focused on their school work and going to college, that I finally recognized my self worth. I saw that I was deserving of attention and love, not only from friends but more importantly, myself. My new pals and I would go out for lunch and blast One Direction on the car ride over, I’m not even a huge fan of the band, but in those moments I thought, this is what I’m supposed to be doing, this is what being 16 is about, not worrying about back pain and how strange I am, but sitting here singing along to some boy band on the way to Subway. I redirected my time toward making sure I’d be able to get into college. My grades improved dramatically, I opened up more, took a break from toxic friends, and joined clubs. I felt unstoppable and my confidence rebooted itself. 
I was high on my own self love, but at 19, at this Jazmine Sullivan concert, my fake it ’til you make it juice has worn off and I’m left with the shallow ass kiddie pool that is my self worth. I’m not sure how this happened. It could be because everything is going well for me right now: I’m entering my sophomore year of college with good grades, I’m having sex I actually enjoy, and I’m writing more. I should be ecstatic and loving life! Maybe I think so poorly of myself that I feel like I don’t deserve this? I’m not satisfied with myself. Sure, I’ve come a long way from wearing back braces and taking Percocet for pain, but I still hate my scars and deformed spine. I feel out of place in my own body and undeserving of all the love I’ve been receiving. I want to get back to being 13 and fearless, not 19 and unsure of myself. ♦
Simone
This summer, I was a camp counselor. I decided to become a camp counselor a week before camp started, so naturally I was very confused, and sometimes felt out of place. I was nervous kids would judge my Nae Nae the way other teenagers do. As it turns out, middle schoolers graders are amused by me. Maybe it’s only because of my vast Diary of a Wimpy Kid knowledge, or exciting high school stories, but it’s admiration nonetheless. Camp counselling is more similar to Wet Hot American Summer than paying parents would like, but it’s best that way.
I got my braces off. I expected this moment to change me forever. To look in a mirror, and see a completely new, glo’d up face, and know that my life would never be the same. A braceless Simone would still be clumsy and fun, but in a sexy way. She would look 21, and have her way with 21-year-old men. But Simone is still not that, in fact, I’m the opposite of that. Nothing has really changed, my teeth are just straight. Post-removal, I spent a week forgetting I didn’t have braces anymore and licking my teeth. Then, I didn’t really care or remember what I had gone through for 18 months. Self-confidence requires more than pliers, I guess.
Five weeks later, I lost my retainer.
I went to my grandma’s house for the longest I’ve ever been, with my dad and brother. And I realized, not only do I really love my dad, but also my brother. He was my best friend this summer.
I went to the Mac DeMarco show I’d been anticipating for months. I was so close to the stage, and everyone wanted my spot. Boys pushed their way to the front. They stopped to stand right behind my friends, and I thought to myself, This is the closest I’ve ever been to a boy. Wow. Everyone was sweaty, some were shirtless, and a lot of unintentional grinding ensued. But then, the boys pushed in front of us, and I realized the only good man left in this word is McBriare Samuel Lanyon DeMarco, so I jumped on stage, gave him the plastic Lisa Simpson head I’d brought for him, and kissed him on the cheek. I dove off stage and ran to get water. I was shaking, and could barely stand because residual marijuana smoke and touching your idol have mystifying powers, especially when combined.
I gained seven pounds, and none of my summer clothes fit anymore. That made me kind of sad, so I started eating more healthily, and lost eight. As I’m learning, losing weight doesn’t really change how you feel about yourself. Well, besides how well your clothing fits. (I did miss my jorts for a brief time.)
I didn’t sneak out every night. I didn’t make any new friends. I didn’t travel anywhere exciting, I didn’t even get on a plane. I didn’t have a summer fling. I didn’t even finish a show on Netflix. But, I had a good summer. A relaxing, and calm, and rejuvenating summer. Although I’m not looking forward to my inevitable return to chaotic high school bullshit, I’m not dreading it. I’m ready. I’m an improved, albeit currently retainer-less, Simone.
As of last night, summer is over. I’ll miss it. ♦
Thahabu
“You forgot about me?” a 24-year-old man with a child asked me over the phone. I hadn’t talked to him for a week after giving him my number. I was walking through the park when we met. He was pushing two babies in swings and waved what I thought was an innocent hello. I smiled back, speeding my way to the library. The next thing I heard was, “Get that slim, get that!” I tried to rationalize as I always do in these situations, he can’t be talking about me. The man rushed after me, leaving the kids in the swings for his friend to watch. He began shouting to get my attention but I ignored him, already aware of what was going on. I turned around to see how close he was to me: close enough. I’m not new to this so I quickly went through the motions in my head, any man that will leave his kids to follow me out of a park is the type of man who’ll get angry and hurt me if I don’t respond to him. So I stopped, and performed the routine I always do when men bother me on the street. I forced a smile and complied. 
“Why was you ignoring me when I was calling you?” There was a sense possesiveness in his voice. 
“Oh, um, I’m kinda in a rush” I replied. 
He told me his name which I do not remember, and kept telling me how I need to respond when someone’s talking to me. I just nodded my head. He asked for my number and I gave it to him my real number, because I knew what was coming: He called it right in front of me to make sure it was mine. 
This happens so often that I have categories for types of street harassers, and I could tell he was the, “Let me call your phone right now so I know you ain’t tryna play me” type. Had it been the wrong number, if my phone didn’t ring when he called, my safety would’ve been compromised, my body and personal space would’ve been violated, and I’d be called a bitch like I have been in the past. And now here I am, speechless, because this stranger has the nerve to call me saying, “You forgot about me,” as if I owe him something for pressuring me into giving him my number. 
“No,” I said, before hanging up and blocking him like should’ve done a week ago.
In those moments I practically reacted the same as I would to a police officer stopping me for no reason. I assessed the situation, realized he had much more power and strength than me, and did as he said I should to protect my life. Whenever I tell these kinds of stories to my male friends—specifically my black male friends—they tell me I’m overreacting. It’s sad. How can someone who’s used to being followed around by strange white men in uniforms tell me, a black woman, that being followed around and harassed by strange men isn’t that big of a deal? 
They don’t understand how prevalent and violent is is. That’s why I need black feminism. Because the feeling of fear that rushes through my spine every time a cop approaches me is the same feeling I get whenever a man follows me home or asks me “Why?” when I refuse to give him my number. Just like cops think they’re entitled to my body and time when they tell me to step aside and give them my name, these men who approach me, refuse to take my “No,” and demand that I explain why I don’t wanna hang with them. They show the same bravado as a power-hungry police officer. What’s not to get? The same men who complain about store clerks following them around look me dead in the face when they tell me being followed home by men who ‘like’ me should be taken as a compliment. It’s frightening. ♦
Alyson
I’m writing in my diary, not a journal (I am trying to make myself comfortable with the word “diary”) in first period, regular U.S. History. I write during that class almost every day. It works well because no one sits behind me, and most of what we are learning was covered in the President’s Day presentations I had every year in elementary school; a crash course on pilgrims, Native Americans, and presidents. 
Today, there is someone sitting behind me, because she wants to take notes with her friend in the very back row of desks. Except they are not taking notes. One is telling the other how she is going to her boyfriend’s house after the football game tonight, because his parents are gone for the weekend. It’s a scenario I have only heard in ’80s movies. 
Giggle giggle giggle. Her friend laughs that all-knowing laugh. They know a lot of boys, they are kind of popular. Popular like all the other blonde girls who wear striped T-shirt dresses and booties, and put dark streaks in their light hair. 
As much as I feel uncomfortable about hearing girls my age expend all of their words on how they plan to get hook-ups, I start to self-evaluate. 
I remember, like, 50 years ago when I watched Prom with my mom. She thought it was sweet, but I thought it was exciting. I was totally under the impression that people were going to be such adults in high school, and that I would most definitely be asked to a dance. Now I am dipping my toe in the dull waters of junior year where the only guys who might ever ask me to anything are boys who I was nice to, while the others stay in the platonic playpen.
And it’s starting to wear on me. 
Am I listening to them because I might want to know…how? How 